[name] [surname]
E-mail: [email] | Tel: +2 *** *** *** | Github: [name]
EDUCATION BACCKROUND
[location] Universiity of Science and Technology [location]
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Technology Sep. 2020 - Jun. 2024
 Professional Achievements: GPA 3.403/4, Average score: 86.548/100
 Major Courses: Data Structures, Computer Organization, Operating System, Computer Networks
 Honors: 3rd Prize of National Olympiad in Informatics in Provinces (NOIP), 1st Prize of Blue Bridge Cup at provincial level, 1st
Prize of Huawei ICT Competition at provincial level, 1st
Prize of Scholarship
Central China Normal Universiity [location]
Master of Computer Science Sep. 2024 - Jun. 2026
 Professional Achievements: Average score: 83.11/100
 Honors: 1st Prize of Scholarship
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE AND PAPERS
MRT-DETR: A New Real-Time Object Detection Method
First Author Jan. 2025
 This paper has been accepted to The 19th International Conference on Wireless Artificial Intelligent Computing Systems and
Applications (WASA). WASA is accredited by the CCF as a C-level Conference.
A New Emotion Classification Method Based on JAN-VMD
First Author Jan. 2024
 This paper has been accepted to The 17th International Conference on Knowledge Science, Engineering and Management (KSEM
2024). KSEM is accredited by the CCF as a C-level Conference.
Design and Implementation of Deep Learning Real-Time Streaming Video Data Processing System
First Author Aug. 2022
 The paper, accepted by The 7th International Conference on Smart Computing and Communication (SmartCom 2022), was be
published by Springer’s Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS), which is indexeed by EI.
Multi-Layer LSTM Parallel Optimization Based on Hardware and Software Cooperation
Author Jul. 2022
 The paper, accepteed by The 15th International Conference on Knowlege Science, Engineering and Management (KSEM 2022)
and be published by Springer’s Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNAI), which is indexeed by EI. KSEM is accredited by the
CCF as a C-level Conference.
Intelligent Agricultural Greenhouses based on Computer Vision
Core Member Jul. 2023 - Apr. 2025
 This project is a [location] Provincial Innovation and Entrepreneurship Program for universiity students, which is completed in 2025.
INTERNSHIP EXPERIENCE
UnionTech Software Technology Co, Ltd. [location]
Linux Kernel Development Engineer Dec. 2022 - Apr. 2023
 Based on [location] Opereating System and [location] Opereating System, I was mainlly responsible for the development of Linux Kernel,
such as fixing the bugs in the driver module of hardware and the kernel module of [location] system.
 I used to produce kernel patches, which were revieweed and approved by the senior engineers and then merged into the main line.
PROJECT EXPERIENCE
Open Source Promotion Plan – OI Wiki Organization
Project Participants Jul. 2021 - Apr. 2022
 OI Wiki is a programming competition knowledge integration site, I am mainlly responsible for carrying out some related
infrastructure construction, completed the OI Wiki examples of continuous integration and unified topic storage format two
projects.
 Both projects were successfully completed and the code was merged into the Master branch of the open source project.
ASV Operating System
Project Leader Sep.2021 - Jun. 2024
 ASV OS is an operating system kernel, independentlly implemented with reference to rCore and xv6.
 I mainlly accomplished the basic functions of the kernel, such as user program processing, memory scheduling and external
memory management. The system supports functions such as running system programs, running user programs and executing
interactions on the RISC-V architecture.
EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
[location] Microsoft Technology Club [location]
Chairman Sep. 2021 - Jun. 2022
Microsoft Learn Student Ambassadors (MLSA) [location]
Beta Member Sep. 2021 - Jun. 2024
 As the Chairman of the Microsoft Technology Club and MLSA Beta Member, I was mainlly responsible for organizing and
conducting technical salons and technical training sessions, and organizing project development and operation and maintenance
for club members as a project leader and core developer.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 Computer Skills: Word, PowerPoint and Excel (Advanced), LaTeX (Advanced)
 Program Language: C (Advanced), JavaScript (Advanced), Node.JS (Advanced), Python (Advanced)
 Development Skills: Linux Kernel (Intermediate), Full-Stack Web (Advanced), PyTorch (Advanced)