[name] [surname]
Computer Scientiist
PROFILE SUMMARY
CONTACT
I'm a computer scientiist. I have a background in physics and extensive experience
in programming and computaional problems. My research is related to the use of
applied mathematics and artificial intelligence to solve molecular modeling
+2 *** *** ***
[email]
WORK EXPERIENCE
EDUCATION Technical Support Specialist
[company]
2019 - 2020
Bachelor's degree Performed various technical tasks in a manufacturing compaany
metallurgical products.
Moscow State Universiity,
Physics department
2018-2022
Data Science
2021 - 2022
[company]
Master's degree
Worked in the Debit Products team, doing various analysis in the appropriate
direction, buildiing analytical models. The tasks included:
Writing SQL queries to download data from the database.
Skoltech, Advanced
Computaional science
2022-2024 Analytics using applied statistics methods.
Teaching predictive and fraud-detection models.
Visualization of results using excel and Tableau dashboaards with daily updates.
PhD
The results of my work were:
Skoltech, The Computational and Launch of several new products, such as the self-employed service and Kubyshka.
Data Science and Engineering Target analytics by customer groups for existing debiit products.
2024-Now
EXPERTISE ML devevelopeer, intern 2023 , summer
[company]
C/C++ (CUDA) Trained as part of a summer internship in the integrated modeling department. The
results of my work were:
AI (ML, DL, RL)
Creation of an AI-based integrated model of an oil field
Lammps (molecular dynamics) Publication of an article on the topic "Well data preprocessing using machine
learning algorithms" in the Proneft journal. Design approach helped to increase
Computaional mathematics &
the accuracy of models in 42%. The link:
numerical modelling
https://proneft.elpub.ru/jour/issue/viewIssue/32/30
Applied physics
Python (OpenCV, Jax, async, MPI) TEACHING EXPERIENCE
Linux Course instructor 2025
Skoltech, Financial markets 101:
Postgres SQL, Kafka, Nats, Redis
Instruments & Strategies
Docker, Portainer
Prepared and conducted own course during Independent Study Period (ISP) with 30+
students and 30-hours total workload. Only positive reviews.
Teaching assistant 2025
Skoltech, Foundaions of
Multiscale Modeling: Kinetics
Prepared and checkeed homeworks, conducted seminars.
Tutor for students 2018 - 2025
Profi.ru
Worked as a tutor for students in mathematics, physics and programming.
Succeessfully helped dozens of students from different universiities prepare for their
exams and tests. My current rating on the site is 5.0 and in the entire history of
teaching there have been no unsucceessful cases. You can find reviews of my work at
the link: https://profi.ru/profile/ChuprovAA2/
Course reviewer 2025
Deep learning
Reviewed the course materials, provided some comments and edits for the Synergy
Universiity course.
STARTUPS
Triple Point, Bblz Team
We have deveelopeed a new way to dampen the sound produced by oil production stations at low frequencies. Its essence was the
phenomenon of dissipation of sound waves in water on air bubbles. This was supposed to reduce the impaact of such enterprises
on the environment and marine life. We reached the “Accelerate level” at the Triple Point Skoltech acceleleator, but then we
realized that it was very diffiicult to promote an environmental project.
AI in blockcchain
The essence of a startup is to create a fund to multiply investments. This uses AI, applied mathematics and high-performaance
technologies to build strategies and analyze transactions and the economics of the cryptocurrency system.
PROJECTS
Development of hybrid models for simulating large particle colliisions
This is my master's thesis. A new hybrid approaach has been deveelopeed to speed up calculations in large molecular systems
without losing accuracy in the required parts. The challenge is to use AI to optiimize such systems at the level of the mechanical
properties of matter. The result is checkeed by the collisiion of two large particles (micrometers).
Diffusion modeling using graphics accelelerators
Modeling the processes of propagaation of a viscous liquid in a porous environment using the lattice Boltzmann method and
technology parallelization of CUDA in C/C++ languages.
Clustering of astrocytes using topoology and machine learning methods
Clustering of brain glial cells (astrocytes) according to their shape using methods applied algebraic topoology and machine
learning. That was my bachelor's thesis.
Neural network for analyzing scientific articles
The purpose of this semantic analysis was to highlight the connections “Technology - Application" based on the texts of scientific
articles. This should help compaies in their technical development. To do this, articles were downloaded using the API from
website arxiv.org and used a neural network to analyze them semantically.
Creating a trading bot based on reinforcement learning.
Bot for automated trading on the stock exchange. Powered by training with reinforcement control (DRL) and [company] API.
Recognition of pedestrian crossings in real time using computer vision
Compiling a dataset and using classical computer methods vision and neural networks for video recognition of pedestrian
crossings and traffic lights. Based on this information, a movement trajectory was created for a theoretical robot.
Analysis of traffic congestion in [location] districts
Transport flows were calculated using Google API and geopandas to calculate traffic congestion in areas. This data visualized in
the form of a color map of [location] districts. Subsequentlly, this the same approaach was used for forecasting.