[name]
📚
Research Engineer Education
Master's student in Computer Science at [location]
I am a first year MSc student at
[location] based in [location] with 2 years of industrial Track Artificial Intelligence and data engineering. experience in software
September 2024 (Expected) August 2026
development and product creation.
Graduate of [location] with a Bachelor’s degree
I have been doing research in the
in Computer Science (with honors)
field of NLP and LLM for more than
a year. Startups and technologies GPA 4.9/5. Key disciplines: Algorithms and Data Structures,
lover. Interested in growth in RnD Mathematical Analysis, Analytical Geometry and Linear
AI-focused team. Algebra, Discrete Mathematics, Probability Theory and
Statistics, Computer Architecture and Networks, 📱 t.me/sm1rk
Programming and Fundamentals of Software Engineering,
LinkedIn: linkedin.com/in/[name]-7b7b20251
OS, DB, Information Retrieval, Big Data, Generative AI,
Applied ML and DL, Optimization Methods.
Thesis: Code summarization beyond function-level
(accepted at LLM4Code Workshop at ICSE 2025).
💼
Work Experience September 2020 August 2024
📝
AIRI Institute (Learnable Intelligence Group)
Research Engineer. Engineering pipelines with LLMs, Code Summarization Beyond Function Level | arXiv
incorporating RAG, and exploring Agent systems. Writing
Done the first comprehensive evaluation of Python code
papers to A/A* conferences or Q1 journals. Contributed to
summarization models at class and repository levels,
showing improvements in summarization quality with
additional context and few-shot learning, and comparing
various models using benchmarks and automatic metrics.
Implemented the complex pipeline on ICD coding in Russian with 5 LLMs and RAG and
LLM4Code Workshop at ICSE 2025
described the experiment setup. Built and run a pipeline for
fine-tuning and doing inference of a meta-model for [name],
V. [surname]. I tuned the meta-model using
AutoGluon and aggregated engineered 18 features which
includes inference of multiple LLMs, applying RAG, and
computing classical NLP features.
Pipeline on ICD coding in Russian with 5 LLMs and RAG. Described the experiment
November 2024 Present | Python LLM RAG Agents NLP ML
setup and results in the paper.
AutoML Gradio
Innopolis University (Industrial Robotics Lab)
Software Engineer. I involved in ML and front-end
dewevelopment of projects on robotics and AI. I single-handedly
deweveloped the interface design of a robotic laboratory
complex. I am a product designer: predictive analytics for
industrial manipulators ([location], Fanuc, Siasun, Eidos) and a
system for golf club and fleet management. I negotia ted with
the customer about the product. Now implementing, testing,
and deploying for production the front-end of the predictive
analytics for industrial manipulators.
G. Andryushchenko, V. [surname], V. [surname], E. Tukhtina,
August 2023 Present | Python Figma React TypeScript
Marker Tech Ltd. (Marker is a Russian AI writing
assistant)
Co-founder & Front-end Developer. Implemented responsive
pages’ layout and components according to introduced
design system. Produced and maintained new project MMTT
features while standardizing, documenting, and testing code.
Asisted and participated in business questions.
May 2022 July 2023 | React TypeScript Redux Next.js
Vladimir [surname]
🧩 🧗
Projects Achievements
Code Q&A at Advanced Engineering Schoo l AIRI Summer Schoo l 2024 (Machine Learning
(Innopolis University) Schoo l) | report
NLP Data Scienti st (Researcher). Conducted experiments on Research Engineer. Pitched about myself. Implemented the
language models, fine-tuning for the Code Summarization experiments on LLMs that go beyon d RAG by incorpo rating
task. Used the Cleaned Funcom (Java) dataset, tested the knowl edge graphs into the retrieval pipeline. Designed the
UniXcoder, CodeT5 models, etc., evaluated the results using final presentation and defende d the team's results.
the calculation of BLEU, Rouge, METEO metrics. Additionally, single-hande dlly prepared a struc tural report to
Code QA task.
August 2024 | Python Llama 3 GPT 4 RAG GraphRAG AriGraph
June 2023 June 2024 | Python NLP Transforme rs HuggingFace
pandas PyTorch LLM CodeLLM
Yanex & CS HSE (Machine Learning Studcamp) |
repository
NLP: Information Extraction — task solution of
fragment text extraction from docs | repository ML Engineer, Team Lead. Implemmented the ML part of the A
level exam question classification project by conducting
several experiments with BERT type models. Managed and
implemented several solutions through Index, NER, Spancat,
and QA. Trained different transformers, the best — fine
tuning ruBert-large for the QA task. Documented all work in a
technical report and presented it as a semster NLP project.
FastAPI MongoDB.
April May 2021 | Python NLP Transforme rs BERT QA NER
SpaNcat spaCy natasha
April 2024 | NLP Classification Transforme rs YandexGPT HuggingFace
Python MLOps
Internship at Artificial Intelligence Institute —
Number Plate Recognition |
Number Plate Recognition | repository
Data Engineer Intern. Collected a dataset, annotated 1.1K
images, realized an interface for existing solution and API.
Data Scienti st (Researcher). Worked on reproducing LoRA
method for NLP problems. Reproduced results of NLG task,
June July 2021 | Python pandas PyTorch implemented eva lua tion function using HuggingFace,
managed team progress in Notion, prepared final presentaio n
visu alising team results.
Innosport+ (sport.innopolis.universi ty) |
repository
November 2022 | Research NLP Transforme r GPT 2 PyTorch
Team Lead, Front-end Developer. Gath ered and led a
dewevelopers team of 4 peo ple, systemized the project
info rmation and tasks, upgraded and maintained exis ting
interfac e and back-end communication. Organized and
prepared over haul of the front-end transition to React &
Next.js.
June 2021 June 2023 | HTML CSS JavaScript React django
grefana aiogram
August 2022 August 2023 | C Algorithm s Combinatorics Probability
Trigonometry Geometry
💻
Hard Skills
Python, NLP, LLM, React, Figma
Data Science (AI) RAG, LangChain, NumPy, pandas,
PyTorch, SQL, AutoML, gradio, streamlit, matplolib,
seaborn, scikit-learn, opencv, Tensorflow
Web: React, TypeScript, FastAPI, HTML, CSS, JavaScript,
Django, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, aiogram
󾓬 Russian (Native speaker)
English (Upper-intermediat e)
UX/UI Design: Figma, Miro, AI
Other: LaTeX, Git, Docker Compose, Linux, YouTrack, Jira
󾓝 Confluence, Notion
Vladimir [surname]