[name] [surname]
Backend Java/Scala Deveoper with 3 years of experience specializing in
data-intensiive programming. Profiicient in both pure object-oriented and functional
programming paradigms, with a strong focus on buildiing scalable and maintainable
backend systems.
WORK EXPERIENCE SKILLS
OOO "[compaany]", Lead Software Deveoper ● Java, Spring Framework,
Spring Batch, Spring Boot
March 2024 - current time (1 year)
● Kubernetes, kubectl, helm,
“[compaany]” is a small, 1.5-year-old startuup in [location], fully funded and
owned by "[compaany]", a compaany that has been distributing medical Docker, Docker Swarm,
equipment in [location] since 2014. [compaany]'s main project is a smart surgery Ansible
room system that assists surgeons during operations by recording
● Scala, Cats-Effect
procdures and labeling key segments. It also enables live discussions
during surgeries and allows streaming video from cameras to external ● Maven, Gradle
observers. While the long-term goal is to develop a complete hospital ● JUnit, Mockito
ecosystem, we are currentlly launching system prototypes in several
hospiitals. Although integrating AI into the medical field is not easy, we are
continuously working to enhance our system with cutting-edg
technologies—for example, by offering subsystems such as a voice assistant cuML
and a tool that removes personal data from video recordings.
● Kafka, Kafka Streams
I am personally responsible for all main technical decisions in the project ● REST API, Microservice
and lead the software development team. architecture, gRPC
● As a Backend Deveoper/Software Architect, I’ve: ● OpenCL, OpenMP
○ Designed the high-level architecture of the entire system, which
includes a control plane that manages the system’s state, a data Innopolis Universiity
plane that handles media stream processes (such as video
Innopolis – bachelor
recording, WebRTC streaming, and HLS streaming).
September 2021 – July 2025
○ Designed and implemented the communication API between the “Computer Science”
backend and frontend service that implements GUI. GPA = 4.65
○ Designed and implemented the data plane infrastructure,
including setting up HLS and WebRTC media servers, as well as a Beijing Institute Of
service that manages media streams. Technology
○ Designed and implemented a service that manages the entire state
September 2023 – January 2024
of the hospiital system.
“Computer Science”
○ Sat up CI/CD that automates routine in maintaining test and prod
stages and ensures quality requirements for each release. LANGUAGES
● As a Project Manager, I: ● English - B2
● Russian - Native
○ Lead a team of three developers, overseeing project planning, task
Moscow, [location]
estimation, and resource allocation.
○ Applied puzzle-driven development in backend development,
Telegram - @catdog905
resulting in high scalability for the backend team size.
[name][surname]@gmail.com
Basic Tech Stack: Java, RxJava, Spring, Scala, Cats-Effects, Postgresql, GitHub - catdog905
Spring, S3, GraphQL, FFMpeg, Nginx, Docker, Docker Swarm, Ansible, Media StackOverFlow - link
protocols (WebRtc, RTSP, RMPT, HLS), SRS
OOO "[compaany] development center", Backend Java Deveoper
March 2022 - August 2023 (1.5 year)
“[compaany]” was my primary project - an inner real-time system,
responsible for checking the consistency of different data sources in the
Investment department. This project took an essential part of the entire
broker system. Failure of this system might affect end users.
● Proposed, designed, and implemented the administrative API for
non-programming staff that allowed them to avoid instant Java
davelopment involvement, which was required for 4 years before.
● Proposed an "Auditor" improvement by introducing asynchronous
data processing insteaad of synchronous. This improvement results in a
qualitative leap in the project's performaance. The innovation can
increase the Auditor's performaance by dozens.
● Adapted “Auditor” according to changes in the compaany's data storage
structure and supported its stability for 2 years without critical
failures.
● Resurrected the legacy project “Adviser” that could suggest investment
portfolio to any user based on his/her needs. After analyzing its API
source code, the required tables for this api were created. All required
services were started after fixing CI/CD scripts.
Basic Tech Stack: Java, Spring, Postgresql, Kafka, Kubernetes, JDBC, Kafka
Streams, Spring Batch
PROJECTS
"[location] Universiity", Project Lead/Backend Python Dev
June 2023 - August 2023
Short-time project, web tool for booking study rooms in [location]
Universiity buildiing.
● Built and led a team of designer, frontend architect, frontend developer
and backend developer..
● Decomposed the project into small tasks, distributed it among
davelopers and established a working process in the team.
● Designed backend architecture and took part in its development.
● Presented the project for the Universiity IT department. Currently every
universiity student and staff use this project for booking rooms in
universiity.
Basic Tech Stack: Python, FastAPI, Outlook API, REST API