[name] [surname]
E-mail: [email]
Telegram: [email]
Phone (mobile): +2 *** *** ***
Location: [location]
Age: 19 y.o.
Education: [location] – PhysMath program “Silaedr” (formerly Chemical Lyceum No. 1303)
[company] (2023–present),
Faculty of Economics and Finance
Skills and Abilities Python (Pandas, NumPy, Scikit-learn, Seaborn, Matplotlib), C++, Excel,
Pascal. Experience in using SQL (PostgreSQL), C.
Data analysis, reporting (a little bit). Ability to independently find
information.
English (reading/speaking, I know the language at the C1 (Advanced)
level.
Clear expression of thoughts, including search engines.
I share my experience (I understand complex and/or poorly documented
things and talk about them in a simple way).
I am familiar with git.
I work both alone and in a team.
I am good at finding information and understanding it.
I have a deep understanding of various economic processes
International Scientific Conference KSASF (2021)
Olympiads and
conferences Baltic Science and Engineering Competition, Rost-ISEF, Silahedron
Conference (2022) - 1st degree in the biology section for the presented
project "Babesiosis in dogs: statistical processing of analysis results".
Wrote a model that diagnoses the disease in dogs using machine
learning methods
([url removed])
IT Solutions School from CROC (2020-2021)
Summer Internship at CROC in Data Analytics.
Hackathons and Datathons from CROC (BrainZ by CROC) 2018-2022.
NordSchooLCTF - 3 место. Participant AntiCTF, AeroCTF.
MSU project - "Cansat" ("Air Engineering School"). Was involved in
programming various sensors, calculating their power supply and location
(their layout) in the rocket.
Laureate of the Youth Jury Prize of the Baltic Scientific and Engineering
Competition, Laureate of the Teachers' Jury Prize of the Silahedron
Conference with the project “Research of Financial Graphs”.
Participant and laureate of numerous internal conferences of the
Silahedron classes.
Awarded for successful performances in M.V. Lomonosov
tournaments in the following sections: mathematics, physics, biology, history, and all-
around.
Work experience Internship at [company] in the field of analytics. Was engaged in calculating
business metrics, especially the 'time to value' metric (the time that a client
expects something from us, for example, approval of documents).In
addition to calculating the metric, it was possible to determine the traffic
light zones for the 't2v' metric and bring it to a convenient dynamic
showcase format for its subsequent addition to various reports (main tools:
SQL, Python, internal applications for working with the DB). Also, it
was possible to cluster the OS for the 'Internet acquiring' product (main
tool: Python) (2024-2025)
Internship at CROC in the field of analytics. Conducted a study of the
purchasing activity of the internal gamefac store using python,
systematized and visualized the obtained data, developing practical
recommendations for the gamification project (2020-2022)
Solved a problem in the CROC Case Laboratory in the field of analytics
(2022).
I lead an economics club for schoolchildren (2022-present)
Work in the jury of scientific conferences: Baltic Scientific and
Engineering Competition (Scientific jury in the Computer Science and
Artificial Intelligence sections), Silahedron Conference (Youth jury in the
Computer Science section)
Scientific management of projects for schoolchildren at the intersection
of analytics and economics
([url removed]).
Courses The creative and theoretica track of the educational program 'Financial
technologies and payment system services' (Fintech Hub of the Bank of
Russia, JSC NSPK) was successfully completed.
Introduction to Machine Learning (Yandex, HSE)
([url removed])
Financial Markets (YALE University)
([url removed])
Introduction to Data Science and Machine Learning (JetBrains,
HSE)([url removed])
Basics of working with databases and SQL (Yandex)
([url removed])Summer
Olympiad School in Computer Science from MIPT
Summer school on machine learning from JetBrains and Higher School of
Economics
Personal qualities Purposefulness, humanity, ability to get out of hopeless situations, creative
approach, quick learning ability.
19 April
2024