[name] [surname]
Mail: [email] Telegram: @[name] Linkedin: [name] [surname] GitHub: @[name]

EDUCATION
Higher SchooL of Economics x Skoltech (Math of Machine Learning)
Faculty of Computer Science (FCS HSE) x Data Science (DS Skoltech): 2024 - Present
1. Courses: Bayesian machine learning, High Dimensional Probability, Markov processes, Deep Learning,
Numerical Linear Algebra, Generative Artificial Intelligence.
2. Coursework: Sample complexity of Schrodinger potential estimation.
3. GPA: 4.6 / 5.
Moscow State Universiity (Computer Science and Applied Mathematics)
Department of Systems Analysis (CS MSU): 2020 - 2024
4. Courses: ML, Probability theory and math statistics, Probabilistic models, Stochastic processes, Dynamical
Systems, C++, Python.
5. Graduate paper: Research of risk management of venture compaany model.
6. GPA: 4.7 / 5.
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE
Research Intern (HDI Lab HSE)
Sample complexity of Schrodinger potential estimation: 2024 - Present
1. Investigated various parameterizations of Schrödinger potentials.
2. Derived optimal control for the case of Gaussian distributions and the equation of connection between the
numerical and exact solution.
3. Performeed numerical experiments using jax, equinox, optax.
4. Prepared tex documents with experimental results and theoretical calculations.
5. Analyzed scientific papers such as - Go With the Flow: Fast Diffusion for Gaussian Mixture Models, Light
Schrödinger Bridge, Score matching for bridges without learning time-reversals.
RESEARCH STUDY PROJECTS
Skoltech - Machine Learning
Functional PCA for Dimensionality Reduction (2025)
1. Our team was awarded as one of the two best projects on the course.
2. We were able to conduct a comprehensive literature review on functional PCA and assess its quality for
three datasets.
3. I have personally replicated the approaches of two papers on FPCA for sparse and high-dimensional data.
Skoltech - Bayesian Machine Learning
Online Rectified Flow for Image Generation (2024)
1. We successfully defendeed the project, receiving a score of 10/10 for the presented project.
2. Our team managed not only to reproduce the results of the Rectified Flow paper, but also to test the
hypothesis about online learning for this kind of tasks.
3. I was able to experiment with various network parameters, including the number of rectifications, EMA
parameters, and UNet parameters.
ADDITIONAAL
Activities:
Participation in the Workshop "Mathematics of Machine Learning" from the Institute of Artificial Intelligence and
Digital Sciences of the National Research Universiity Higher SchooL of Economics. I participated in the seminar,
held a discussion with the scientific supervisors of current projects and listened to the reports of colleagues from
the Institute.
Technical skills: Git, Docker, Python, Linux, Pytorch, Jax, Numpy, Pandas, Scikit, С++, Mtlab, CatBoost, Optax,
Equinox, SciPy.
Languages: English - Advanced, Russian - Native.