[name] [surname]
Education
Sep 2018 – Bachelor's Degree in Chemistry
June 2022 Institute of Chemistry, [location]
Sep 2022 – Master's Degree in Chemistry and Artificial Intelligence
June 2024 ChemBio Cluster, ITMO University, [location]
Sep 2024 – PhD in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
+2 *** *** ***
Present National Center for Cognitive Technologies, ITMO University, [location]
[email]
GitHub

Work Experience
Google Scholar
Scopus
Researcher
ORCID
Scientific group “Separation and Concentration Methods”, ArXiv
Sep 2019 –
Analysis of the stability of hydrophobic eutectic solvents used for
June 2022
the extraction of dyes from nutritional products.
Skills
St. Petersburg State University, Institute of Chemistry
Language Skill
ML engineer
Sep 2023 Russian (Native)
Project work on the ML-based recommendation system,
– Jun 2023 English, C2
Poustupi Online
Researcher
Computer Science Skill
Scientific group “Center for Artificial Intelligence in Chemistry”,
C/C++, C#, R, Python
Aug 2023 Application of artificial intelligence to problems in chemistry, in Python frameworks
– Aug 2024 particular to predict the morphology of nanomaterials using large (Pandas, Matplotlib, Scikit-
learning models, generative systems and classical machine learn, PyTorch, PyTorch
learning, Lightning etc.)
ChemBio Cluster, ITMO University, [location]
Researcher
Multiagent systems
development (LangGraph
and LangChain
frameworks)
Scientific group “Natural Systems Simulation Lab”,
Developing multi-agent systems based on large language models
Aug 2024
– Present to create frameworks that help scientists solve various problems in Chemistry skill
fields such as chemistry and materials science,
Solving of various
National Center for Cognitive Technologies, ITMO University, [location]
analytical chemistry
Skills Development problem
Organic synthesis
Course - Introduction to Data Science, Machine Learning and Infrared spectroscopy,
Sep 2022
Neural Networks HPLC, spectrophotometry,
gas and ion
Aug 2022 Course - Python Programming, Fundamentals of Statistics chromatograph
Nov 2022 Course - Big Data: Storage Technologies and Introduction to eutectic solvents
Machine Learning
Course - Advanced Machine Learning (Python) and Text
Mar 2023
Processing
Nov 2023 Course - GPT Week School of data analysis
Jun 2024 Course - Introduction to large language model prompting
Teaching Activities
Oct 2023 Mentor on the course “Programming of chemical tasks” at ITMO University
Dec 2023 Manager/Lecturer at the “Artificial Intelligence in Chemist's Work” online course at ITMO University
Apr 2024 Manager/Lecturer on the course “Algorithms and Big Data in Chemistry” at ITMO University
Publications
A* Conferences, Main track
[name] [surname], Dmitrenko Andrei, Dmitrenko Aleksei, Serov N., Vinogradov V. (2024) Unveiling the Poten­tial of AI for
Nanomaterial Morphology Prediction. Proceedings of the 41st In­terna­tional Con­ference on Machine Learning. PMLR.
Vol 235. (preprint avail­able on arXiv).

Q1 Journals
Shiashov A., Pochivalov A., [name] [surname], Bulatov A. (2023) Deep eutectic solvents with low viscosity for automation of
liquid-phase microextraction based on lab-in-syringe system: Separation of Sudan dyes. Talanta. Vol. 255. pp. 124243
Shiashov, A., [name] [surname], Kirichenko, S., & Bulatov, A. (2022). Behave­ior of quaterna­ry ammo­nium salts and terpеnoids-
based deep eutectic solvents in aqueous phase. Journal of Molecular Liquids, 347, 117987.
Conferences
A multi-agent system based on large language models for solving problems in chemistry ChemCoScientist - Future
Technologies Forum 2025, [location]
Text-to-Image generative system for predicting the morphology of nanomaterials produced by solution chemistry
based on synthetic procedures and the BERT natural language processing model, XXIX Kargin Readings (Tvеr) 2023,
Congress of Young Scientists (St. Petersburg) 2023, Interna­tional Sci­entific Student Con­ference (Novo­sibirsk) 2023,
Problems of theoretica­l and experimental chemistry (Ekateri­nburg) 2023, Chemistry and Chemical Technology in the XXI
Century (Tomsk) 2023, Lomonosov-2023 (Moscow)
Stability of hydrophobic deep eutectic solvents, “Science and Progress-2020”, St. Petersburg, [location].
Other Achievements
Winner of Data Science Scholarship 2022, Principal Engineers Scholarship Program, St. Petersburg Government
Scholarship, State Academic Scholarship, Russian Pre­sident Scholarship
Publishing on the Habr.com platform - “How image generation in chemistry can be applied to predict nanomaterials”
SCAMT Workshop Week (SWW) - project participant “Rational design of nanomaterial catalytic activity”, project mentor
“Text-to-image generative model of nanomaterial morphologies”
Mentor at the BootCamp Hackathon
Mentor at the Sirius summer program, project “Predicting the conditions of dyeing cotton fabric with natural dyes to
obtain a given color”
Internship - Aktobe Energy Efficient Settlement, Tatnift
Hackathon "DataCon" - 2nd place winner
Hackathon "Future Data" - 2nd place winner
ITMO MegaContest - Winner's Diploma.