[name] [surname]
Researcher of DL / NLP / CV
Stay in touch with me:
● [email]
● https://linkedin.com/in/tech
Computer Vision / Deep Learning Embedded Systems & Embedded UI
(DL) Vision
● Embedded Systems: Experience working with embedded devices
and low-level integration.
● 3D Modeling &Reconstruction: 3D modeling
● UI Frameworks: Qt for embedded systems and UI development.
(blendshapes, bones, skinning), SfM, SLAM,
● Languages: Proficient in C and C++ for low-level system and
embedded development.
● Video Processing: Segmentation, tracking,
pose and lighting determination.
● Generative Models: Stable Diffusion, ViT, CLIP, Technical Proficiency
SAM 2 for image generation and
manipulation.
● Linux & macOS: Advanced knowledge of the Linux termiinal, vim,
Apple DriverKit for macOS.
● Libraries & Tools: OpenCV, PyTorch
Apple DriverKit for macOS.
(torchvision), experience with embedded
devices.
Audio Deep Learning
Leadership & Management
● Team Leadership: Leading 10+ ML engineers, cross-functional
team coordination.
● Product Management: Managing roadmaps, backlog
prioritization, and delivery cycles.
● Latent Space Generation: nanoGPT,
StableAudio for audio synthesis.
● Audio Processing: torchaudio for
speech-to-text, text-to-speech, spectrogram
analysis.
● Diffusion Models for Sound: DDPM, Latent
Diffusion, CLIP/CLAP, DiT. Research & Publications
● Quantization Techniques: VQ, RVQ for
encoding continuous sound sequences. ● Research Sources: ArXiv, DeepMind/Meta AI Blog.
● GitHub Repositories: Contributed to projects like Awesome-LLM.
Machine Learning / NLP Expertise
● LLMs: Fine-tuning GPT (3.5, 4), BERT, T5,
LLaMA 2/3, and Transformeer models. Data Engineering / ML Ops
● NLP Techniques: Classic methods (n-grams,
tf-idf, skip-grams), dialogue systems, intent
recognition, sentiment analysis.
● Production Integration: Deploying ML models using Python,
FastAPI, Docker.
● Prompt Engineering & RAG:
● Technical Stack: Python, SQL, Bash, JS, NextJS. PyTorch,
Zero-shot/few-shot learning
● iOS Engineer / Launched and delivered from scratch two products:
Project Manager
at LLC Atominvest
May 2019 — February
2021
Contribution:
● Developed iPad/iOS app as an iOS Engineer with MVVM/Realm archtecture.
● The requirements for the REST API were described by me.
● Collaboration with designers on UI/UX, and requirements gathering.
● Created chatbot scenarios using Miro to guide users through the interaction flow, resulting in
a more intuitive and engaging user experience.
iOS Engineer / Developed two mobile applications with AR and ML features, integrating neural network models, and
Backend collaboration with CEO, and cross-functional teams to deliver high-quality products.
Developer / ML
Software Stack: Python / PyTorch / CoreML and Swift/UIKit/Xcode.
● The model was converted to CoreML format by me. Also, I wrote the backend on Phalcon.
Engineer,
Startup on UpWork
USA
Sep 2018 - Apr 2019
● iOS apps were developed with Swift / AR and ML features and integrated neural network
models using GitHub, Xcode, TensorFlow, and CoreML.
● Developed MVP app executes recognition of human pose based on ML models.
● Train model on available open datasets, and convert model to CoreML models.
● Checked three hypotheses with ARKit-based apps fetching Reference-images on demand
● Attracted the new team member Backend developer and WooCommerce plugin developer.
iOS Engineer / Delivered updated gifting app SwiftGift to UK/EU/USA App Store markets.
Deliv-ery Manager at Swift
UK
London
swiftgift.com,
London
Overcame technical and payment termiinal challenges to deliver a mobile app for multiple markets
with different user preferences and payment methods Developed innovative strategies to
encourage user engagement and retention in a highly competitive and constantly evolving
industry.
October 2016 —
August 2018 Contribution:
● Developed iOS app with Swift/MVVM/ReactiveSwift/URLSession/Alamofiire.
● Conduct Daily-meetinings with Engineering team
● Filling backlog and planning roadmap next quartal together with CEO.
Junior iOS Engineer Develop mobile app "Afisha-Restaurants" for reservation tables in restau-rants.
at Rambler
April 2016 -
September 2016
Distribution Manager I was an assistant CTO. We made an affiliate distribution program.
March 2015 - April
2016
Tizen Mobile Was developing AnywayAnyday (Airflight / Hotel booking app) applications on Tizen (C++) / iOS (ObjC)
Developer / Product / watchOS (ObjC). What I have done:
- Realised concurrency uploadable images from the server, custom view controllers and transitions
between them.
- Created custom view controllers with MVVM archtecture.
C++/Qt 4 System Client-server application was developed that communicates with master hosts via UDP to exchange
data received from GPS receivers (constructed NMEA parser based on ANTLR). The accuracy of
the transmitted time data reaches 1 µs (10^-6).
Employer: Institute of
fiber optic systems
and computer
networks
April 2011 - July
2014
Higher Education: Faculty: Computer science, artificial intelligence and control systems: Information
Bauman System, Computers, complexes, systems and networks
Moscow State
Technical
University
July 2008 —June 2014
Passed Courses:
● Product Manager School, Skillsetter.io (Online course)
2019 — 2021
● How to Start Startup (Horowitz, Moskovitz), Stanford Uni-versity (Online Course)
2018
● An Introduction to Project Management: The Basics for Success, Stanford Uni-versity (Online Course)
2017 — 2017
● Venture Deals Spring 2021, Techstars (Brad Feld, Jason Mendelson) (Online Course)
MARCH 2021 — APRIL 2021
● Market and competitor analysis, Target audience and product positioning, Interaction with
developers, Unit economy of a growing product (Skillsetter.io)
JUL 2021 —OCTOBER 2021
● Professional Scrum Product Owner I & II (Scrum.org)
Passed Technical Courses:
● Deep Learning.AI: ChatGPT and Large Lan-guaage Models (LLMs) (inc. Prompt Design,
Fine-Tuning)
2023
● Google Cloud Skills Boost: Introduction to Generative AI / Large Lan-guaage Models
2023
● PyTorch: Zero to Mastery (Deep Learning, Tensors, CNN, RNNs, GAN, and etc.)
2023
● Machine Learning Crash Course - Google Developers
○ (Machine Learning, Gradient Descent, Regres-sion, Classification, and etc.)
2022 — 2023