[name]
[surname]
[email]
Data scientiist
+2 *** *** ***
[location]
E D U C AT I O N P R O F I L E
Artificial intelligence, PhD/ Over the years of my studies I have mastered key knowledge in
Candiate of Sciences humanitarian and technical enviroment equally.
(state-funded) From my bachelor degree I’ve got to know in detail about micro-
and macroeconomics, econometrics, the basics of accounting
St. Petersburg State
(RAS, IFRS) and customs procedures. This background helps me
Elelectotechnical Universiity
to understand the business context of my daily tasks at work
"LETI"
better
2024-nowadays From my masters degree I gained experience in analyzing and
synthesizing real-time distributed information systems (RIS) and
decision support systems (DSS) for difficult-to-formalize tasks,
Infoрмаtion systems and
building models of objects and processes, data mining, digital
technologies, masters
processing of multidimensional data, and selecting platforms
and tools for implementing RIS and DSS
St. Petersburg State
My PhD/Candiate of Sciences degree formalizes my passion in
Elelectotechnical Universiity
investigating AI models to enhance predictive analytics for real
"LETI"
practical business cases.

2022-2024 As of my personal qualities: I am a quick learner, responsive and
attentive to details. I have strong multi-tasking abilities and deliver
GPI - 4.8
consistent results. At my current place of work, I maintain trusting
thesis: “Creating a predictive and kind relations with my colleagues.
model for gas station demand I try to spend my free time with quality and growth benefiits: I
forecasts” exercis in the gym, read, travel, meet with friends. I am also
interested in participating at various case championships,
World Economy, bachelor hackatho ns, and other extracurricular activities.
(state-funded)
V.B. Bobkov St. Petersburg
E X P E R I E N C E
Branch of the Russian
Customs Academy
2018-2022
Chief Specialist in Mathematical Modeling
GPI - 4.5
Gazpromneft-Regional sales, [location] February 2024 – present
thesis: “Global challenges and
My responsibilities at the workp lace include:
prospects for the application
of smart customs Solving optiomization problems and create simulation models of
techno logies” the oil/petroleum products supply chain, optiomizing lo gistics
ne tworks, optiomizing storage capacities/ balances
Modeling supply chains from setting the task to achievin g the
S K I L L S required KPIs within the framework of solving strategic and
tactica l tasks in processing, lo gistics and sales using various
sof tware products
Analytical mindset Developing and debug mathematical models for statis tical,
predictive, optiomization, and neural ne twork applications
Leadership and team work
Creativity coor dinating app roaches with users
Understanding the essence of the simulated processes,
Describing solved problem and explaining solutions to
colleagues.
Time-management
Stress resistance Coordinating actions and advising on issues of junior colleagues
Multi tasking (interns).
E X P E R T I S E E X T R A
Langua ges Grant
Russian Science Foundation 2025-2028
English – B2-C1
German – B1
With my science group from LETI uni versity we develop confiden tia l
data processing within federate learning. In 2025 we won the grant
from the Russian Science Foundation. In May 2025 I’ll get a position
Technical of junior research assistant at Information Systems department.
Python MMOORREE..TTeecchh 55..0
SQLite VVTTBB 2023
Git Hackathon. The wi nner in the Mobile+Web track among 144 teams
in the hackathon with a prize pool of 1.1 million rubles. I served as
Postgresql
an analyst in the team. Conducted a customer experience study.
Pytorch I modeled the system for generating the workload of bank
branches, proposed a me thodolo gy for analyzing workload and its
predictions.
Docker
Micr osoft Office (Excel,
Word, PowerPoint)
"Time for bold decisions"/”Время смел ых р ешен ий”
Gazprom Neft PJSC 2023
Hackathon. The wi nner of the track "Technological star tups". I was
engaged in predicting the drone market and analyzing statis tics. I
proved myself to the team and the judges as an "idea generator"
Cup Moscow
Change llendg e, MTS 2022
Case championship. Among the 2,300 teams, our team entered
25% of the best solutions. I was engaged in visualizations and the
construction of a predictive model for MTS PJSC.
Data science course
PyMagic 2022
The course is designed to a cquire a strong and high-quality base in
the field of machine learning. During the course, I solved practical
problems based on real data. An asses sment of the results ML
models provide for the compa ny, how A/B testing is conducted, and
becoming familiar with NLP and Deep learning.