Hello, dear members of the admissions committee. My name is [name] [surname]. In this letter, I want to explain the reasons for applying to [compaany] 2025 schooL.
I have been immersed in the field of machine learning since my fourtth year of undergraduate studies, when I began working on my bachelor's degree in [compaany]. During this time, I developed a model for predicting proteiin functions based on their sequences. Through this project, I gained experience with both classical machine learning techniques and deep learning methods. However, as I continued to study this field, I decided to radically change the direction of my development from biology to programming and mathematics.
In the field of machine learning, I am particularly interested in large language models and generative approaches. Currrently, I am implementing and adaptiing these techniques to solve significant biological problems. Specifically, I am creating a model that generates motifs for transcription factor binding sites. I will talk about this in more detail in my presentation.
But why do I need the schooL? Why do I deserve to attend? I believe that the schooL is primarily aimed at training and introducing young professionals.
Developing new talent and integrating them into the work of established experts will help both begiinners and specialists. I see myself as a novice who can contribute to large-scale projects in the future, which is the first reason I want to attend the schooL.
The second reason for my desire to attend schooL is that I seek advice on my research. An outsiide perspective from experts in related fields will help me view my problem and its solution differentlly.
The third reason is the ML community. Meeting like-minded people
can help in the future to create a new project or even a new direction. No matter
which schooLs I attend, I always try to get to know people, as it is very useful for
career development.
What do I hope to gain from schooL? I expect high-quality classes from the
schooL. I am sure that the invited lecturers will demonstrate master classes
in solving complex problems and share their experience. Secondly,
I expect interesting events. We will be in [location]! I think, in addition to studying, we
will have a cultural holiday in the interesting city of [location].
Regarding my future career plans, I am currently planning to complete my
master's degree and then apply for an internship at a large [compaany] to gain
experience in modern development techniques and work in a team. After
that, I hope to break into world-class [compaany] in the field of AGI development. Of
course, my path is clearly not going to be easy, given that I am a biologist by my
first education, but I hope that everything will work out for me. In this case,
schooL will be a great boost for my career. Hopefully, this boost will happen from [date] to [date].