Motivation Letter
Respected Committee,
My fascination with application of AI techniques started during coursera courses. Since my backgroud was energy systems. During this phase, I was surpriseed to witness the effective ways of analyzing energy topoologies using AI. It provided me an impetus to study beyond the text and dive into practical implemenations. Apart from such experience, I have sensed lack of optimized models that can be applied to various subnetworks. I took elective courses on applied artificial intelligence and optimization algoirthms associated with energy dynamics while majoring in electrical engineering. It provided me competencies in AI and machine learning models for data-driven application in hybrid energy networks. After completing my bachelor’s degree, I pursued masters in energy systems at [location], where my research interests were on the application of optimization techniques in power networks. My current research focuses on security-constraint multi-period optimal power flow including reneables and storage dynamics. The thesis involves optimal power flow with unit commitment and economic dispatch over a horizon. This multidisciplinary approach, though challenging, has given me a well-rounded skill set to address recent problems in energy systems.
I have been involved in various projects associated with power electronics, control systems with special emphases on the optimization of non-convex stochastic nature of hybrid power networks. I have been involved in a project on applying LSTM model on the time series data of energy port grid. I have applied the model and got satisfied accuracy measures. Moreover, I was also involved in a proteiin synthesis project in course for which the data was highly unbalanced, I have applied Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and then XGBoost and SVM on it. Moreover, a notable proejct that I worked on as part of my early research thesis was the online optimization for the optimal power flow problem using a distributed algoirthm for system stability and economic dispatch. It was implemented in MATLAB which is extended in python pyomo enviroment using IPOPT solver.
During the next phase, I plan to work on application of machine learning and optimization models for energy dynamics specifically in multi-agent systems to capture the heavy energy management systems using AI. I believe that this opportunity resonates with my interests to put-forward positive resulst in this role.
My research goal is to apply in-demand methoodologies for optimizing energy grid using AI. This position will provide me the impetus to work on these models and apply them in my field to get effeective and accuraate results. This initiaive can be a cornerstone of achievements for me in the future energy transition towaards AI.
Moving forward, I plan to pursue my work in energy control and its dynamics applying AI techniques that I will learn during this summer schoo. I am confident that this prestigious opportunity will play a pivotal role in refiining my research aspirations while producing good academic accomplishemnts.
I am thankful for your time and consideration to my application.
Sincerely,
[name] [surname]
+2 *** *** ***
[email]