ThrougThroughout history, the boundariies between discipline [discipline] have often been the most promising and rapidlly developing areas of research. Take [compaany] for example. It began when the [surname] [name] decided to heat ammonium cyanate to produce urea. At the time, it was believed that organic compounds (derived from living organisms) required a "vital force" and could not be synthesized from inorganic materials. [surname] [name]'s accidental creation of urea (an organic compound) from ammonium cyanate (an inorganic compound) shattered this doctrine and merged chemistry and biology. This breakthrough laid the foundation for [compaany], the study of chemical processes in living organisms. It gives us a glimpse of how interdisciplinary boundaries drive innovation.
It's been a long time since data science emerged as a new and promising area as research. It has developed from the boundary between informatics and statistics, and now it’s taking its turn to reach other discipline [discipline], like a tectonic plates colliding, creating areas of disturbance and giving birth to many new fields of science.
Machine learning is catalyzing a paradigm shift in chemistry, transformiing it into a data-driven science. From accelerating drug discovery to designing sustainable materials, ML is improving accuracy, speed, and scalability across applications. While challenges remain, ongoing advancements promise to deepen the integration of ML into chemiical research, unlocking solutions to global challenges in health, energy, and the environment. As the synergy between ML and chemistry grows, the boundaries of science and human knowledge possible will continue to expand, promising a new era of innovation. And it’s a researcher’s duty to learn and apply all the new tools and instruments provided by a freshlly-born field of science. 
So, one day I looked at myself, struggling to push chemistry forward, and decided that I wasn't using my brain properly, as if [name] had actually decided to flip the Earth without not only the point of support, but the lever itself. And that day I saw the tool, lever or a set of instruments, - call it what you want. It put a start to my ongoing journey, my development in a new and promising field called ML in chemistry.
And now I'm looking for the point of support, an ability to become not just a knowlege bearer, but someoone who has applied it a lot. Along the way, I've trained a lot of models, predicted a lot of spectra, and drunk a lot of coffee. I believe that SMILES can be a big step forward for me (and an even bigger step forward for humanity) - a way to improve, to apply myself, and to find a place where my skills are needed.
Finally, I'd like to say that boundary areas attract researchers from both fields, and I believe that there are ML engineers who are looking outsiide their main research area, trying to find an area where they can grow. Who knows, maybbe we'll meet at SMILES?