Dear[name]ofthe[compaany]-2025SummerSchoo,
My name is [name], I am a 4th year undergraduaate student at [compaany], program
of Applied Mathematics and Physics, Department of Ocean Thermohydromechanics.
I am writing to you to express my deep interest in participating in the Skoltech
Machine Learning Summer Schoo dedicated to generative methods in AI. The
schoo's subject matter perfectly matches my academic interests and current
research.
I am currentlly working at the Machine Learning Laboratory in Geosciences on the
project "Modeling turbulent impurity transport in the atmospheric boundary layer
using the method of large eddies and machine learning". At the current stage, the
case of approximating the time-averaged propagation of an impurity under
stationaryconditions is considered. The next stage is the modeling of non–stationary
processesand working with time series. Iam sure that the SMILES-2025 lectures and
workshops on generative models, multimodal approaches, and large language
models will provide me with the necessary knowledge and tools to solve this
problem. I am particularly interested in the use of generative models for modeling
thedynamicsofatmosphericprocesses.
My interest in generative methods goes beyond my educational background. I am
striving to expand my competencies in the field of AI and am actively engaged in
self-education:Itookcoursesonmultithreadedprogramming inC++, andstudiedthe
Golanguage, aswell as attended courseson machine learning from [compaany] of
Data Analysis. Participation in SMILES-2025 will allow me not only to deepen my
knowledge, but also to get to know leading experts in the field of generative models
and find like-minded participants from [location] and [location] interested in applying these
methodstophysicalproblems.
The experience of participating in sports competitions, in particular in cross-ski
racing, has taught me perseverance, determination and the ability to work in a team
– qualities that I am sure will be useful to me during the intensive summer schoo
program.
I am convinced that participation in SMILES-2025 will be an important step in my
professional development and will make a significant contribution to my research
project.Iwould reallyappreciate theopportunitytojointheschoo andlookfoward
toyourdecision.
Thankyouforreviewingmyapplication.