Dear Selection Committee,
I would like to express my strong interest in participating in your upcoming
Machine Learning & Deep Learning Summer School. As someone who believes in
the future of domination of AI, I want to be the one leading this trend, not lagging
behind. Hence why I see this event as an opportunity for me, to deepen my
knowledge, get acquainted with like-minded individuals and advance myself in the
field of machine learning.
Today’s rapid ML/DL development has been going for several years now, and
drastically changed our everyday lives. We use it everywhere, and it helps us
accomplish a lot of mesmerizing things. As for someone who uses these tools on
everyday basis I am eager to be part of this world-changing transformation.
Participlating in this school with cutting-edge technology and leading experts will
allow me to immerse myself into the environment of innovation, research and
breakthroughs. Especially if it involves not only theoretical material, but also
practical real-world challenges.
Although my main job does not involve ML/DL, I have been studying these
topics myself. That’s also the reason why I chose these topics for both my
dissertations, in bachelor’s and now in master’s. I am familiar with all popular
toolkits for ML/DL development on Python: PyTorch, Keras+TF, SciPy, Pandas,
and more. My bachelor’s work involves designing diffusion model for shape
generating and my current (master’s) work is about compression technologies using
NN approaches. And I am really proud of my work.
In the Summer School I hope to gain comprehensive knowledge about ML/DL
and deeper understanding of foundations. I am especially keen on computer vision
and AI agent tasks, particularly ones applied in educational problems. There is more
I look forward to, networking with fellow participants. Technology is great, but
without humans developing it, it’s nothing; therefore interacting with other like-
minded researchers is essential.
In the near future I see myself working at the intersection of ML/DL field and
infrastructure tasks. My backend experience will be beneficial for me, since every
model or system requires something to run on, and with my experience I can ensure
this platforms maintain high-availability.
Thank you for considering my application. I am enthusiastic about the
opportunity to join your school. I hope my experience will not only enhance my
chances but also share my vision on the future for ML/DL.
Sincerely, [name] [surname]