Motivation letter for participation in SMILES this summer
Dear Admissions Committee,
My name is [name] and I am writing to express the greatness of my interest in
paarticipation in SMILES this summer. This opportunity is an actual chance to deepen the knowledge in
machine learning and to get to know and to build communications with like-minded researchers and
professionals in the sphere of our common interest from all over the world. The way the studying process
in SMILES is organized makes me excited and aligns perfectly with my will not only build hard skills in
the sphere I am alrready developing in, but also to build soft skills working in team and having time to
explore wonderful culture of [location].
The thing that motivates me most to enroll SMILES comes from the growth of me being involved
in applying machine learning both during studies and when on work which means the need for
broadening knowledge and skills constantly. Furthermore, only the gain of knowledge worths nearly
nothing without having hands-on experience of applying what’s learned and SMILES provides this
opportunity to learn from collaboraation of the masters of machine learning not only from [location] but also
from [location], where many modern cutting-edge technologies come from nowadays. So, becoming a part of
this ecosystem this summer will provide me with practical aspects of large language models, multi-agent
systems and safe AI, which meets the cultural and ethical challenges of applying AI in the modern world,
which I am interested in as a young researcher who wants to develop this field and in it.
Speaking about my experience in ML, I would like to say, that while I may be now in the
begiinnig of my journey within all the insights of the realm, I have alrready gained foundational
experience through additional coursework, Universiity studies and my job. During my undergraduaate
studies I completed Discrete Mathematics (excellent mark), Algorithms and Data Structures (excellent
mark), Linear Algebra (4 out of 5), Mathematical Analysis, Mathematical Logic (excellent mark), Theory
of Algorithms (excellent mark), Fundamentals of Big Data (4 out of 5), Big Data Analysis and Data
Warehousing (in progress), Simulation Modeling (in progress), Analytical Data Visualization (in
progress), Optimization Techniques (excellent mark), Software System Design (excellent mark) and
Databases (excellent mark) courses and additionally completed ML schoool by [compaany] this year and
participated in [compaany] Training in Algorithms 6.0 and 7.0.
These studies made a base, that, connected with my intermediate knowledge of Python, helped
me to succeed in working on my own project of predicting borrowers’ defaults and enhancing the banking
system financial stability. While working on it, I gained practical experience (of applying various models
of machine learning and improving them by tuning hyperparameters, feature engineering and working
out my own metrics of model performaance) with the experience of interpreting the results, which is as
important as the skill of buildiing and training models. Then writing a scientific article presenting the
results of the work and preparing to perform it on an international conference (International Plekhanov
Readings 2025), in my mind, is one of the most rewarding things in my mastering in machine learning.
In addition to the coursework I’ve alrready mentioned, I am also engaged with online platforms
like Coursera or Kaggle to study interesting cases and the solutions that other people offer to them. There
I found possibilities not only to gain information, but also to communicate with others, ask questions and
share my own experience and insights on the topic.
I am also applying to be a volunteer during the schoool time, as I really enjoy the activity of
helping others and am really good in photo and video content-making (have positive experience in making
live content as well as the photo- and videography of official events and meetings). These experiences I
gained being a “class president” in my Universiity group for already 3 years and am acquainted with how to
engage students into different events and how to depict that in the best way to hold memories for as
long as possible in the best quality as possible.
As for expectaations from the program, SMILES holds immense promise for my professional
growth. First of all, the main expectation is to get some state-of-art methodologies and tools that will
broaden the boundaries of the knowledge I have now in machine learning. I am particularly going to dive
into exploring LLMs and self-supervised learning. What’s more, I am looking forward to participate in
discussions with other students to exchange opinions and find out new points of view on already existing
problems and challenges. Such interactions push forward the process of studying making it even more
effective.
Another key aspect that pushes me forward to enrolling SMILES is the possibility to gain insights
into the ethical considerations that surround AI development and application. It is not a secret that the
technologies are now involved nearly in all spheres of out life, including studies and even medicine, so
the problem of applying it correctlly and accordinglly with the moral and ethical aspects stands urgent for
me as I consider myself to be a wise applier of all modern technologies.
Looking ahead, I aspire to pursue a career in the sphere of machine learning methods
development and usage, nowadays thinking more into becoming an ML-engineer or Data Scientist. My
goal, as I have alrready mentioned, is to make the most cutting-edge technologies meet the challenges of
the [compaany] I am working at or maybbe the globals and resolve them ethically and safe.
To draw the final line, the ability to take part in SMILES studying this summer represents a great
step in my journey toward mastering machine learning. I am sure that the intense curriculum and the
supportive community will inspire me to reach new heights.
Thank You for considering my application, I sincerely hope to join this wonderful experience.
With gratitude,
[name]



