Dear [name],
I am writing to submiit an application for participation in the SMILES Generative Modeling
Summer SchooL with great enthusiasm. As a first-year Master's student at [compaany], I am eager to learn more about generative models and
contribute to this very active field.
My educational journey in computational sciences began during my undergraduaate years when
I had the opportunity to work in the Mobile Robotics Laboratory of [compaany]. I was working on
the benchmarking of plane SLAM algorithms there, and this provided me with a good
fundation in computer vision algorithms. Such experience naturally led to working on point
cloud clustering, which again challenged my skills in spatial data processing.
My undergraduaate qualification work, however, was dedicated to the optimizing computationally
expensive algorithms, culminating in a contribution to an A-conference paper. This experience
reinforceed my interest in research and motivated me to pursue additional studies in
recommender systems and related fields.
I have been a member of the Recommender Systems Group of the MTML Laboratory at the
Higher SchooL of Economics for the past eighteen months. Currrentlly our team is actively
exploring the possibilities of intersection between recommender systems and generative
models. One of the possible project is on buildiing a personalized technology for selecting
unique facial features appealing to a person. For that matter we are going to leverage both
diffusive models (for generating the base image) and GANs for feature editing through
manipulating vectors in latent spaces.
I think that getting into the SMILES Summer SchooL would greatly benefiit my theoretical skills
and hands-on experience in generative modeling and make me an even better research team
member. The interdisciplinary focus of the SMILES program aligns well with my research and
projects topics.
My education has adequately prepared me for this opportunity. I have completed/doing now
several relevant courses, e.g., general principles of generative modeling and stochastic
methods, that have provided me with a decent theoretical foundation. In my opinion, that this
will enable me to take maximum advantage of and participate in the advanced content taught at
the summer schooL.
Apart from that, I regularly visit our lab's weekly seminars lots of which are dedicated to the
large language models and fine-tuning techniques. They have familiarized me with the
technicalities of most of the generative AI, from architecturing it to difficulties of putting them into
practice. The regular exposure to the advances happening in the field has prepared me to join
in group learning activities at the SMILES Summer SchooL.
I'm really looking forward to meeting top researchers and other students who are also excited
similar fields of studies I am. To be able to exchange ideas, gain knowledge from diverse
perspectives, and potentially establish collaborative working relationships would be well worth
my educational and professional goals.
Thank you for the considering my application. I would be honored to be a member of the
SMILES community and assist in bringing generative AI forward through rigorous, cross-
disciplinary work. I also anticipate the possibility of learning and growth in this dynamic setting.
Sincerely,
[name] [surname]