Motivational Letter
Dear Members of the [name] Committee,
I would like to express my interest in undertaking the [name] ML summer school since I strongly believe it will strengthen me as a specialist in the fields of political science and international relations with AI focus by providing the opportunity to acquire and consolidate new skills of quantitative analysis and ML/DL methods of research. Besides, it will enable me to implement my mastered research skills and to share gathered unique experience with other participants in order to contribute to the common project and prospect cooperation.
Since the high school I have always been determined to work hard and to study diligently. I was one of few who finished school with excellent marks and the highest results in the Unified State Exam in [location]. This ensured my enrollment in one of the most prestigious universities in [location] – [name], and guaranteed me a state-sponsored education place. During my studies in the university, my performance has always been of the highest class. Besides, I had a chance of completing two internships that significantly broaden my perception of what I am capable of and provided me with an opportunity to implement my analytical skills. For my first professional internship, I was an analyst in the Office of [location], the Department of Internal Policy of the [location] regional government in [location]. I was responsible for providing analytical papers on regional policies in [location], evaluating implications and participating in brain rushes on emergency meetings. Head of my internship highly assessed my contribution to the work of the organization and proposed future cooperation in his Office after my graduation. For my academic internship, I had to win a competition and pass the selection among other students of all faculties. Fortunately, I was enrolled in [name], in [location]. There I met students of different cultures and have successfully build strong connections to them. Last year I graduated the [name] with honors and 4.0 GPA, as well as getting second diploma in Analysis of Big Data.
At present, I study at [name] in the [location] on the Master’s program “Data Analysis for Government and Society” majoring in Political Science and Sociology. I have chosen this specific program because of its narrow educational vector aiming at providing many complex and modern quantitative research methods. As a political science student, I can see a great potential in acquiring those computational research skills as they broaden scholars’ abilities in analyzing the society. While pursuing Bachelor’s Degree I had written multiple essays and done number of little research where I analyzed the [location] identity construction policies, War in [location] justification, Economic Comparison of Political Regimes Effectiveness during [location] Crisis and Analysis of Children with Foreign Background Integration Policies in [location]. However, I felt limited to qualitative handmade or simple quantitative analysis. My current studies at [name] taught me about proper regression analysis with diagnostics, geoanalysis, agent-modeling, network analysis, and some ML methods (sentiment analysis, LDA, DTM, clustering, tree building). This half a year of studying made me significantly stronger as a political scientist and I wish to continue developing in this direction.
As I acquired new skills, I immediately started implementing them in my research. First, is the state-sponsored research project “Arctic Media Coverage: Comparative Cross-National Analysis” by [name]. In February I was invited to a team of three scholars to study what are the narratives on Arctic region across different Arctic states. In the team I was responsible for research design, theoretical and methodological frameworks, data collection. I have written a parsing code to collect 15000 posts from National Media websites of 11 countries and automatically translated them via beautifulsoup4 and deep-translator modules. Then I prepared the data for the topic modelling analysis with LDA – cleaned up the texts of the posts, tokenized, applied lemmatization, and cleared stop-words. As a result, we receive identified topics to every country that we can compare in dynamics to see, what are discourses being translated to every analyzed nation. The book with my research is expected to be published in August 2025. Second, is the WCIOM winter sociological school, where I was to defend real cases in front of actual stakeholders. I have applied the research design with media analysis using different ML methods including: BERT, ABSA, RNN and BiLSTM. I lead my team to the victory of case presentation and received a job offer as an AI automation specialist after the school. I have also completed NVIDIA DL course where I have learnt about picture clustering methods by building the model entirely (including data preparations with tensoring) and certain NLP methods that I was already an expert in.
I am an active open-minded student who both reaches to achievements and breakthroughs in science and contributes to the betterment of society. I participate in science conferences and summer schools, do science research, get involved in social activity. I feel I can contribute to the development of the world, gradually grow as a specialist. The summer school [name] definitely offers the greatest opportunity to learn from the best. I constantly see as some of my professors specializing on qualitative methods study important subjects with no will to turning to tools enabling to get internally and externally valid knowledge and generalize it to larger entities. Political Science and International Relations are archaic in this perspective and mostly only students are willing to learn ML and AI methods to diversify the tools and attempt to commit a science breakthrough.
After graduating [name] I plan to study abroad and pursue PhD in either [location] (Tsinghua, Fudan or Peking Universities) or [location] (to a Government Scholarship Program). In summer 2024 I was admitted to Master’s Programs of [location], [location] and [location], but I could not fly to study there due to family circumstances. I speak four languages, and intent on learning Chinese as well. Studying in Asia will enrich me with culture experience and allow me to implement my skills I have been gathering all this time in the public policy field. I wish to work in the international organizations like the UN or the SCO, or a governmental organization operating in national security or economic cooperation. There I could update local algorithms with innovative technologies learnt, and contribute the wellbeing of the humanity. This is my true-life goal.
Thank you for your time and consideration. I am looking forward to your positive decision and participating in [name] 2025 in on-site format!
Sincerely,
[name] [surname]



