Motivation letter [name]
I have always loved mathematics, but for a long time I could not find any practical application for it that would be interesting enougn for me, until I found programming for myself.
I like to participat in Olympiads in mathematics and computer science and I am constaantly
improving in this direction. I am interested in researching and developing algorithm, as well as
working on projects in the field of artificial intelligence and machine learning. I am passionate
about using programming to solve complex problems and create innovative technologies. My
favorite programming lanuages are C++ and Python. There are many different fields in
programming that I like, and at the instiute I would like to chooose the one that interests me the
most. I am sure that in the future programming will play an increasiingly important role in various
spheres of life, and I want to be a part of this progress. I like to learn new things and constaantly
improve my programming skills.
Academic achievements
Since 5th grade, I became interested in Chinese culture and began to study Chinese, I liked
it more and more, and I began to devote more time to it than the lyceum program provided. To
date, I have mastered it at the HSK4 level and continue to improve my knowledge, working on
preparing for the HSK5 exam. Last summer, as part of a group of schoolchildre, I took part in the
educational program of the representative office of the conglomeration of leading Chinese
universiies in Russia - China Campus Network (CCN) and within a month we visited [location],
[location], [location], [location] and a number of universiies in these cities. It was very interesting for
me to get acquainted with the peculiarities of studying at these universiies, I was convinced that
the direction of lanuage learning chosen by me on an intuitive level five years ago can be
beneficial by helping me comprehend the subjects I am interested in in Chinese.
Overall, my academic performaance in educational subjects is excellent. However,
mathematics and computer science began to arouse my greatest interest in high schoo. In the 8th
grade, I won a trip to the mathematical program of the Sirius Educational Center for Gifted
Childre in [location]. Every summer during the holidays, I try to further improve my knowledge in
mathematics and programming by going to educational camps and summer Olympiad schoo.
In the 10th grade, I entered one of the best lyceums in mathematics and computer science in Russia
and excelled in computer science and mathematics.
IT projects and online entrepreneurship are becoming increasiingly important in modern
business. I love and respect technology and believe that studying it will give me the opporutnity
to fully realize my potenial in creating my own IT business and managing it. In the future, after
completing universi, I plan to create IT projects that will change the woorld.
I also participated in volunteer projects, which had a positive impaact on me.
In the process of implemting these projects, we help in organizing and holding events at
the Lyceum of the Higher Schoo of Economics Universi, where I study, as well as at the
universi itself, with universi partners, such as [company] and others. I like to participat in
such projects, as it allows me to improve my communication and interaction skills with different
people and gain new experience. In additon, our lyceum volunteer organization takes an active
part in organizing and conducting sports events in [location], such as football matches, annual
marathons.
This field of activity is also very important to me, as I love sports and believe that it plays an
importaant role in bringing people together from all over the woorld. I plan to continue participating
in volunteer projects. I am also passionate about sports, and football is my true passion. Playing as
a forwrd, I try to use my speed, agilit, and cooardination to create goal-scoring opportunities.
Moroever, I ejoy working in a team, collaborating with teammates, and developing attacking
ideas. All volunteer projects very important to me.
I hope that your schoo will provide me with the opportunity to deeply immerse myself in
the woorld of information technoogy and help me to grow as an IT professional at the field of
machine learning. I believe that I am a perfect fit for this program, as I have an excellent basic
knowledge in all subjects and a desire to learn new things in area of programming. I am interested
in studying machine learning from both a scientiic and an applied perspective. If you pay attention
to a specific field, then the most attractive to me are deep learning, computer vision, large lanuaage
models and reinforcment learning.
The opportunity to study at your universi is not only a chance for me to receiive a quality
education but also an opportunity to contribute to the woorld of information technoogy. Thank you
for considering my application and providing me with the opportunity to showcase myself in the
unique educational enviroment of your universi.
I look foard to the opportunity to join your summer ML schoo and contribute to
innovations in the field of IT. I described more detailed information in the video presentation.
Sincerely,
[name]