I am writing to express my ambition to join the 2025 Summer School of Machine Learning. I see myself embarking upon a research career in the industry or academia, building expansive models, developing unique architectures, and attempting to push the boundaries of Machine Intelligence. Hence, along with my plans to enroll in a Master's program in Data Science or ML at one of the top [location] universities, I am actively looking for opportunities to expand my knowledge, challenge myself, and collaborate on engaging projects.
My prior experiences and mini-projects have been instrumental in shaping my interests. I gained insightful experiences during my first internship at [company], a startup focusing on menu automation that aids restaurants in expanding their customer base by creating customized and interactive online menus. The internship allowed me to dabble in various roles and tasks. Initially, I analyzed the coupon/discount systems used by competitors and similar companies, nationally and internationally, and outlined the features later presented to the stakeholders. Mentored by a senior team member, I successfully implemented the basic features of the discount system, from validating business logic and offering different functionalities to different users to integrating my code with the existing codebase.
The chance to join the Machine Learning Lab at the university became an achievable ambition only in my final year, as the priority was for Master’s and senior students. However, I was fortunate to surround myself with peers who shared the same aspiration to master knowledge and extend it beyond the restricted scope of the educational setting. A standout moment was my participation in my first hackathon, where I invested two weeks in building a mechanism to optimize post office allocations in [location]. My solution revolved around dividing the Third Rome into smaller regions using the H3 hierarchical geospatial indexing system. I collected, cleaned, and combined data from different sources to represent each region. I later fed the data in question to a classical ML model to learn a mapping between the engineered features and the presence of post offices. My team placed eighth at this large hackathon, with participants from [location] and neighboring countries.
My part-time Research and Development team position at the University Center of Gas and Oil Technology amplified my passion. The tasks I undertook presented crucial opportunities to deepen my understanding of critical aspects of Machine Learning. I gained hands-on experience with model error analysis, effectively leveraging transfer learning and adapting findings and recommendations from the literature. For instance, I was entrusted with developing a solution to effectively model large amounts of unlabeled visual data of Petroleum material. Stepping into the uncharted territory of Unsupervised Learning was quite exciting, and implementing the SimCLR framework from scratch and scrutinizing my solution was even more thrilling. The initial positive results instilled the confidence to explore strategies to boost the model's performance. The key lies in honing the selection of augmentations based on Contrastiive Learning literature recommendations and following Curriculum Learning principles to leverage the most informative samples. The resulting embeddings are at the core of internal visualization and labeling tools. Beyond Deep Learning, my most notable work is a defect detection library in weldings. My implementation, which represented an ad-hoc pipeline of features engineered with image processing techniques and then fed to classical computer vision algorithms, reduced the initial error rate by 10%.
Moreover, I had the privilege of undergoing my graduate research internship under the supervision of the head of the Machine Learning Lab. Initially, I was interested in studying Source-Free Domain Adaptation as my thesis topic. Following an in-depth literature review that spanned several subfields of Transfer Learning, my supervisor tasked me with exploring Concept Bottleneck Models (CBMs), not from an interpretability perspective as widely investigated in the literature, but from the feature transferability angle. I designed an experimental framework to quantify the difference in domain invariance between the representations learned by a standard model and its CBM counterpart. I reached the first consistently positive results only after numerous unsuccessful attempts. These experimentation cycles, although exhausting and discouraging at times, equipped me with a significantly better understanding of the problem space. This understanding proved crucial when my thesis supervisor entrusted me with extending my work beyond the scope of my thesis to a standalone research project. The following step was to justify the higher empirical transferability of CBMs.
Delving into the world of Deep Learning generalization was indeed intimidating. Nonetheless, I managed, in the limited assigned time, to adopt recent findings from the Information Bottleneck Theory to estimate the generalization errors of the studied models. The estimations aligned with our empirical results, further supporting the advanced hypothesis. My research experience, however transitory, highlighted the expansive challenges researchers face in the field and the numerous potential applications of computer vision research.
My undergraduate studies endowed me with the academic foundations and the yearning for lifelong learning. However, my experiences as an international student led me to develop invaluable personal growth and resilience and fully appreciate the value of collaboration. I am most excited to take part in an international fest of science, expand my professional network, and rub minds with such brilliant individuals.
Although the program starts in three months, the only way to fully take advantage of such an invaluable learning opportunity is first to familiarize oneself with the different research directions and then leverage the limited time in the presence of such world-class researchers and engineers to verify, challenge, and extend the initial understanding. Even with such preparation, the lectures, seminars, and active discussions will undoubtedly shed light on numerous gaps and give rise to several lightbulb moments. Furthermore, the hackathon, the project implementation, and the presentation of the results will undoubtedly push me to the limit of my intellectual ability, opening the door for growth and inspiration both in the short and long term.