Motivation Letter for SMILES-2025 Summer School on Machine Learning
Applicant: [name] [surname]
Dear Selection Committee,
I am thrilled to be able to attend SMILES-2025 Summer School on Machine Learning. Being an enthusiast and an aspiring researcher, engaged in the fields of applied ML and digital healthcare, my decision to go through this programme comes with a lot of benefits — getting deeper into generative and multimodal AI, getting engaged in an international community, and developing intelligent systems with a real-world impact.
The domain of my academic studies reflects my serious ambitions, willingness to explore unused avenues, and comprehend many interdisciplinary issues. My proficiency was marked as outstanding at the Higher School of Economics during my studies on BSc Business Informatics programme, where I graduated as a top 5 student. I was concurrently enrolled in a second bachelor's programme at the University of London in Management and Digital Innovation, with the academic direction of the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE). My studies included accomplishment of many courses in relation to AI and ML, a step which deepened further my technical knowledge and motivated me to engage with the problem space directly.
Having a deep love for ML, I was the only student from my course who earned a scholarship that covered all the expenses to participate in the "Machine Learning in Practice" (ME315) course at LSE — one of the best universities in the world — right after the completion of my second undergraduate year. Although the course was mainly meant for senior undergraduates and those at the beginning of their master’s studies, I completed it successfully (received an A grade). The scholarship included the tuition fee and accommodation in London, so I had the opportunity to be fully absorbed in an international academic environment. For my project, I developed the coursework titled “Analysis of Energy Efficiency of Buildings”, where I executed a set of techniques such as feature selection, PCA, Lasso/Ridge regression, and KNN classification to correspond to the prediction and classification of energy efficiency of buildings on the basis of architectural data. This project reaffirmed my resolve to find genuine problems and use ML to solve them while also sharpening my technical skills.
Professionally, I am a Data Engineer at [compaany], working with the ML team for four years. I create pipelines / infrastructure / tools to support our AI goals. One of the biggest projects is a real-time streaming pipeline in AWS aimed at processing over 850k daily messages associated with 3D scan workflows for ML downstreams. This is the foundation for a big production system which intelligently strips braces out of scans; I co-patented that method: “AUTOMATIC DETECTION AND REMOVAL OF BRACES IN THREE-DIMENSIONAL SCANS,” USPTO Application No. 63/751270. This project demanded experience with 3D vision, ML integration & scalable system design.
Besides my core tasks I self-challenged during an internal hackathon to build an ML model of daily use that would evaluate orthodontic treatment plans (currently done for 2-3 weeks & expensive). I built the whole pipeline from scratch using pretrained ViT-based models (DINOv2) fine tuned on single/multi-view inputs with regularised linear regression. This led to a promising final product that had the clinical time and cost reduction we had hypothesised. I pitched it to my company management and the head office SVP which really elevated my communication/stakeholder engagement.
What gets me excited most about SMILES-2025 is its frontier standing on large language models, self-supervised learning, multimodal AI and multi-agent systems — rapidly evolving fields chock full of promise. What is also of great value for me is the practicality of teaching where theory flows into workshops, group projects and a hackathon. That fits exactly in line with how I learn, using create, test & refine. I am so excited to be an experimentalist in such an environment.
Another great opportunity is the poster session. In my opinion, science is most fertile when it is discussed between people, and I would feel honored to let my work in applied ML be discussed by peers and professors that may challenge or support my approach. I appreciate the students and experts at SMILES for the diversity of views which will allow me to observe problem-solving through alternative toolsets and conceptual frameworks.
In the nearest future, I plan to enroll in a master's program for Big Data Systems that will further expose me to modules related to ML and data infrastructure. I view SMILES-2025 not only as a step toward further education, but as part of a broader professional journey. I aim to become a leader in applied AI industry - someone who not only is able to understand complex ML techniques, but also can responsibly and effectively apply them on a large scale. My vision of the future involves keeping the momentum of the ML systems that I put into practice and making sure that they benefit people. The SMILES-2025 event symbolises one of the decent milestones of this journey: it is a place reflecting a perfect synergy of various criteria — human resource, hardware, and industrial application, and I am thrilled to get the chance to offer and take in such a positive environment.
Beyond my participation academically, I would love to participate as a volunteer as well. Particularly, I want to get involved in organising some informals — games, crafting evenings, quiz nights etc — to get some of the participants mingling outside of lectures. I would also be thrilled to help write content and cover media. I love working together and would be excited to back the spirit of the school.
Lastly, I have a deep-rooted personal passion for [location]. I am really struck by how much it has to do in tech, its rapid growth, and enthusiasm for AI research. I have a lot of admiration for leadership in innovation from [location] and can't wait to meet its research community via this program.
Appreciate your time. Looking forward to being part of the SMILES-2025 community.
Sincerely,
[name] [surname]