Motivation letter
Dear Scientific Committee of the [compaany] 2025 Summer School, my name is [name] [surname]. In my motivation letter, I want to tell you about myself and why this summer school is necessary for me. Last year, I graduated from the Master’s degree program in Data Science at [compaany]. This field was new to me, as my previous education was related to condensed matter physics. As a result of two years of study, I have mastered basic disciplines such as machine learning, deep learning, introduction to computer vision, numerical methods in linear algebra and much more. The knowledge gained allowed me to complete an industrial internship at [compaany] on the topic of deep diffraction neural networks, as well as complete my thesis and solve the tasks that faced me as an employee of the laboratory. All the projects that I carried out were related to computer vision, but this field is developing very rapidly and is not limited only to the task of segmentation, detection or generation, which I was engaged in. Now, due to the development of language models, multimodality, which I have been working on for the past few months, is gaining popularity.
The topic of multimodality captured me after I took part in the AIRI 2024 summer school and carried out a project related to Wavelet transformations. The experience gained at school and the completed project allowed me to confidently enter into a multimodality-related work project and generate ideas for improving the model.
The project I’m talking about is related to the creation of a multimodal encoder for robotic tasks, to obtain representative embeddings when video, text, and actions of what the robot is doing in the video as input. Nowadays, our group from the Applied AI Center is starting to collaboration with the [compaany] on the current task. Therefore, participation in this school is not only necessary for me to gain relevant knowledge, experience in the field of multimodality and other areas, but also for physical interaction with colleagues. Since colleagues from [location] have a robot on which it will be possible to launch and test the encoder, and if possible, make a project and present it to school as part of the final project, if the school committee approves the idea.
The goal that I want to achieve after accepting my candidacy for summer school is to immerse myself in multimodal architectures with the possibility of using them in my projects, one of which is a future dissertation, expand my circle of acquaintances to carry out joint projects and acquire new knowledge.
Based on all of the above, I consider myself a worthy candidate for the SMILES 2025 summer school, as I have related experiences and tasks in which I will apply my knowledge.
Thank you for taking the time to consider my candidacy.
With respect,
[name] [surname]