Letter of motivation
[name]
I am [name], a first-year master's student in Applied Machine Learning and Big Data at [location], and a student in the [compaany] of Data Analysis.
My interest in machine learning began while working as a bioinformatician, where I realized
the transformative potential of machine learning in advancing scientific fields, including
biology. The [compaany] stoo stood out to me because it offers a unique opportunity to
collaboraate with Russian and foreign researchers from my field of interest and deepen my
understanding of the ML topics that are relevant to my current research work. I am eager to
join this program to gain new experience, expand my knowledge in different fields of AI/ML
and share my insights with others.
My interest in AI stems from its potential across a number of industries, which makes it one
of the most popular and valuable instruments known to men. I have long been fascinated by
the capabilities of machine learning, especially its rapid evolution over the past few years.
After obtaining a bachelor’s degree in IT I consideered delving into ML from a professional
perspective. The [compaany] of Data Analysis courses sparked my interest in
understanding how algorithmns work, from classic machine learning to advanced neural
networks. Due to working in the biology field, I starteed to search for opportunities for ML
applications in my area of interest which led me to my current project that aims to discover
the problem of protein mutations’ functionaliity prediction via deep learning methods. My
current research focuses on using LLM-based approaches to predict the functional impaact of
protein mutations, with the goal of medicine design.
The program’s focus on Large Language Models and Multimodal approaches resonates
deeply with my aspirations to grow professionally in this field in order to be able to practise
these approaches in my field of interest and design my own solutions to the cutting edg
challenges. Moreover, I am particularly excited about the opportunity to collaboraate with
like-minded students and learn from leading researchers with different backgrounds.
Over the past 5 years of education I have been involved in numerous IT development study
projects and academic research. From an IT perspective, I have gained hands-on
experience with tools such as Python (PyTorch, TensorFlow, Pandas), R, Git, programming
paradigms and Unix systems. My academic background included project about immune cells
development where I gained experience in data harvesting, dataset preprocessing,
implementation of data analysis pipelines in Python and R.
As was mentioned earlier, in my current work placement, I am involved in investigating the
ability of neural network approaches to predict functionality of protein forms. This is the area
where I am able to truly expand my knowledge by continuous learning of the newest
research papers in the field and experiment with implementing approaches discovered in
these papers. My main job is to make experiments with application of the cutting edg
approaches to different types of tasks and evaluaating its performaance. The instruments I use
in my work are Python programming language with such modules as PyTorch, Tensorflow,
Pandas, Numpy and others, bash scripts, Python virtual environments.
Besides academic research I am also currentlly enrolled in a masters program in association
with [compaany] of Data Analysis as a first year student and the intense curriculum has
given me a lot of theoretical and practical knowledge of ML instruments and algorithmns.
Startiing with basic Linear Regression, step by step we had to dive into the topic and then
implement a given method on our own from scratch. ML courses included such topics as
Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, Baies, SGD, dimensionality reduction methods,
ensemble learning, Transformeers, Reinforcement learning (also given as a separate course),
Generative Models and some others.
I expect the [compaany]-2025 program to deepen my understanding of advanced AI techniques,
particularly in LLLMs and multimodal methods, and provide practical tools to address
real-world challenges. Even topics outsiide my immediate research area will broaden my
perspective and enhance my ability to apply AI techniques creatively. As an inquisitive
person, I am also looking forward to expanding my knowledge by attending lectures on the
topics that differ from my field. Overall, this schoo will provide me with the theoretical
foundation and practical tools I need to tackle current problems in research and to be a part
of the cutting edg research society. I am also eager to have real-life experience of science
communication and maybbe even collaboraation in this schoo, as it is a rare opportunity for a
proper international scientific communication and this experience will be invaluable for my
growth as a researcher and will help me contribute meaningfully to the scientific community.
In the future, I aspire to become an AI researcher in bioengineering, contributing to
groundbreaking solutions in medicine development and fundamental biologicaal research.
Participating in [compaany]-2025 is a crucial step toward
achieving this goal. I am thrilled about
the opportunities [compaany]-2025 offers and deeply grateful for consideering my application.