Dear Organizers of SMILES 2025,
My name is [name] at [university] and [university] in Applied Math and Informatics.
My academical path has followed me through these different
universities, respondiing to my internal intentions to get
acquainted to different scientific societies. I am existing in self-
constructed balance of research and industry, trying my best at
research and delivering results of ML applications development
to users. I experienced myself in numerous teams in IT
corporations like [company], [company], [company], [company], currently
working under retail problems in [company].
Since my first acquaintance to the world of Data Science and
Machine Learning it became clear to me that the question about
my path and profession is solved. However, at different period of
time, whatever team I belong, my close connection to ML
research was approxiately at constant level. I am glad that I
may be proud to take part in development of several products
like multiaccount speaker verification feature for [company],
improvement in both terms of quality and time efficiency for [company]
recommender products and [company] Browser, my recent
succesees were about integrating LLM agents for education
products. That is why, my intenetion to visit your schoo is rather
clear.
My presentation is devoted to Emotional TTS, subtask in my
favourite (one of!) Speech Processing domain. My strong belief is
that a man of research should not be limited to solutions in one
specific domain, that is why my ML interests are rather broad: I
may name myself rather experienced in NLP, Speech Processing,
GNN, Time Series processing, RecSys. I also had some projects
in Computer Vision and multimodality, but I am rather fair and
not going to state that I am a big expert in these fields. Now we
as humanity found ourselves in LLM era, and surely I am getting
in touch with all the news and trying out new agnets and AI
products, that is why I have great request in communication with
different experts in the field to discuss most recent results in
different ML domains and to elaborate on what we may expect
from the future (and how we can influence on it!)
My successes as a scientist is not that great, however my
industrial experience is rather broad. With different product
features and ML models implemented I have vision on how
specific ML approahes may get usage in industry, therefore I
would be very pleased to discuss such questions.
To sum up, It would be great opportunity for me to expand my
contacts, extend network of fancy specialists in modern science
and to say hello and hang out with my good friends from
[university], I am looking fo rwward to it very much. And yep, with
great pleasure I would take part as a volunteer, I have
experience in organizing activities for ML people =).
Yours sincerely,
[name]