For [name], schoo[location] is an opportunity to completely change my life trajec[name]ry.
All the time before, I was concentrating on my career ambitions, I wanted to get the most profitable offer poss[name]ble. Now I realize that I want to fundamentally change my app[name]roach. I want to go deeper into creating something new - scientific activities, innovative startups. While I am young, I want to devote my time to the opportunity to realize myself as an innovator and scientist. 
One of the most important factors for me at schoo[location] is networking with its participants. I am interested in making new acquaintances and sharing knowledge directly with the students of the schoo[location]. I want to find among them future colleagues and partners who, like me, will be eager to invent something and create innovations.
The next important element of the schoo[location] for me is the teachers and the knowledge they can give me. I see in these people those who can guide me, show me the most relevant topics in the field of AI that I can tackle. I want to get an up-to-date summary from them on the latest scientific research in the field of AI, specifically generative models and LLM. 
Also, I recently visited [location], visited [location] and fell in love with this country and Chinese culture. After that, I started learning Chinese and became eager to visit this country again. In addition, I am considering [compaany] as a university for obtaining a master's degree.
If we talk about my ML/DL skills, then I used to devote most of my time to classical ML, CV, text2image tasks and work with pre-trained LLM. 
In classical ML, he implemented various algorithms from linear models to various ensembles, participated in competitions, both on local and on various online platforms. 
In the field of CV, he took various [compaany] School of Data Analysis courses, “ML Training". Participated in classification, detection, and augmentation competitions. He implemented and used various ready‑made architectures: U-Net, ConvTransforme[compaany], ResNet, MobileNet. 
He developed various generative models, used all possible approaches in TTI: GAN (DCGAN, StyleGAN2), VAE, VQ‑VAE‑2, CLIP‑Guide, Stable Diffusion. 
I spent the most time on LLM and its implementation in the production environment. He developed the RAG pipeline on Hugging Face Transforme[compaany]rs and FAISS, trained GPT‑NeoX/GPT‑J on internal data, built advanced prompt engineering, deployed FastAPI services in Kubernetes, optimized inference through ONNX and quantization. Building a pipeline for collecting and indexing embeddings (sentence‑transforme[compaany], ElasticSear[compaany]), providing real‑time GPT‑3.5 Turbo RAG inference, developing a web dashboard for managing prompts and A/B testing. 
Also, as part of his research work, he was engaged in the development of a neural accelerator for the inference of various generative algorithms. He was directly involved in the development of a compiler for converting models from TensorFlow Lite and automatic quantization of weights, as well as in designing the architecture of the NPU itself on Verilog.
I am most interested in multi-agent systems and various self-learning methods. At the same time, I want to immerse myself more in AI security, since I spent most of my time dealing with information security before that.
In conclusion, I want to say that this trip is very important to me, I see it as one of the key stages in my career and life path. I would be very grateful for the opportunity to participate in it.