Motivation Letter
[name]
I've heard many good things about [compaany] and am considering it for my master's degree, so it would be especially interesting for me to attend an event it's organizing. Especially since [compaany] is the scientific partner: I'm literally writing this email from the [location] student camp, where we attended lectures by [name] about accounting for dynamics when building 3D scene maps for robots and autonomous vehicles - it seemed quite non-trivial to me how AI is used to solve such problems, and I'd be interested to hear more about similar things and, in general, to interact more closely with this institute. Actually, I haven't been in ML for very long: it all started in 11th grade when I got interested in big data and participated in several hackathons closely related to data analysis. Then I completed a six-month internship at [compaany] International Search as an analyst-developer, where I worked closely with ML specialists. After receiving an offer for a full-time position as an analyst, I decided that ML is actually closer to my spirit and therefore immersed myself in studying relevant areas. Right now I'm in this period where I'm studying ML from all possible angles: taking an AI course at [university], studying prolegomena to strong AI at the Higher School of Economics, writing a term paper in fintech about predicting demand for credit products, and participating in [compaany]'s ML training sessions.
For the most part, I've worked with classical ML and recommendation systems - well, you know, these are some of the most common topics found in competitions on relevant platforms. However, right now I'm working with a team in the field of large language models: together with [compaany] Cloud we're continuing work on a project for the [library] Library, where we analyze news papers from different publishers and based on events described in them, generate AI talk shows that discuss contradictions, references to other dates, and similar things. Regarding the task, I'm specifically working on aggregating descriptions of the same events by different publishers and looking for some omissions, errors, and inconsistencies. Also during the student camp, [name] from the DeepPavlov lab gave several lectures on multi-agent and multimodal systems that really fascinated me. So if an opportunity arises, I would definitely grab it to work with them.
For the past few months I've been working on my research "Forecasting Demand for Credit Product", where I studied a completely new model for myself - Dynamic Factor Model, implemented it and compared it with vector autoregression, experimenting with data and parameters. I don't think the research is finished, because the more you study - the more unexplored things appear, but nevertheless this is my first major research work that I defended literally yesterday and received an "excellent" grade and a collaboration offer. I spent a lot of time working on it, but I really enjoyed researching, studying and conducting some experiments, so I would definitely like to continue, and within SMILES there's an opportunity not only to do this, but to do it with amazing people.
At SMILES, I truly see an opportunity to collaborate with talented people and even imagine a possible meeting with a person (or maybe people) with whom I could work on new research. But besides that, I would be interested to participate not only as an attendee but also as a volunteer. I often put my social life on hold, prioritizing academic work, but actually, I would like to spend these two weeks not only absorbing knowledge but also interacting a lot with people, because most of them will definitely be more experienced and wiser than me. I have quite a lot of experience working with people: I've organized Olympiad training camps, pitched at events, and simply completed several courses at [university] and [company]'s corporate university that develop communication skills, so I don't think there could be any difficulties in this regard.
If we're talking about the future, I often and quite a lot think about it and hope (and will try to do everything possible for this) that the coming years will be spent in active scientific work, gaining experience and simply expanding my own horizons. In about five years, I'd like to precisely determine which area of artificial intelligence interests me most and found my own AI-integrated startup - I have quite a vague idea of what it will be about, and that's exactly why I'd like to immerse myself more in the world of AI now and explore existing options for its application. In about ten years, I'd like to achieve the startup smoothly transitioning into a full-fledged company that would be capable not only of functioning but also supporting new research and integrating it into processes.
From the school, I expect that I'll have to study and work very-very much, but to be honest, it doesn't particularly scare me and it's very nice that I'll get to work on applied tasks. I'm a big fan of most of the theories learned finding its application in practice, and judging by the school's announcement, everything will be exactly like that. Moreover, the lineup of SMILES speakers is truly unique - I'm not sure I've ever seen (but hope to see more than once in the future) so many people who have achieved incredible heights in their fields in one place. So it's not only about the material they'll present, although that's undoubtedly the most important part, but about seeing - being inspired and also achieving scientific breakthroughs and discoveries.