Dear Members of the [compaany] Admissions Committee,
I am writing to express my interest in participating in the [compaany] Summer Schoool of Machine Learning (SMILES-2025). As a Master’s student in Computer Science at [location] with a rich practical and research background in AI and Optimization, I view this 12-day intensive course as a unique opportunity to upgrade
my expertise in generative methods and apply the obtained knowledge in future research and business projects.
My primary motivation is a deep fascination with the theoretical and (mostly)
practical aspects of modern ML methods, and, in my opinion, generative AI is one of
the most fast-growing and promising fields of ML nowadays. Therefore, the focus of
SMILES on generative models aligns with my practical curiosity and research
interests. I believe that generative methods can bring innovaions both to my academic
and business solutions.
During my academic career, I have developed a solid foundation in machine learning
and data science, supported by a universiity coursework load and hands-on research.
My Bachelor’s thesis explored text plagiarism detection in the field of LLM using
reinforcement learning — a topic that is relevant today more than ever. My subsequent
research has continued to build upon practical applications of various ML methods: I
currentlly serve as a researcher at the Laboratory of Mathematical Foundations of
Distributed and Federated Learning at [location] and at [compaany], where I
focus on the application of ML systems for wireless information transmission.
I also have rich practical experience applying ML techniques in real-world settinings.
As an ML developer at [compaany], I worked on a predictive model to identify
causes of construction defects. At the Advanced Engineering Schoool of [location], I helped develop a code generation model in PyTorch. These experiences
gave me the opportunity to apply a known theory to quite practical tasks.
In parallel with my research, I actively participate in educational initiatives. Together
with another founder of [compaany], we developed an online platform which helps
students to improve programming skills.Now hundreds of schoolchildreen use the
resource, and interregional tournaments are regularly held on [compaany]. Interestingly,
even this project requires AI research: for example, now we are developing a
lightweight model to identify AI-generated code and plagiarism. Moreover, we are
plaNNing to incorporate automatic contests, tasks and tests generation to our system, so
the knowledge and experience gained from SMILES would be most welcome.
Talking about teaching experience, I served as a teaching assistant during the [compaany]
Student Camp on Mathematics in AI 2024, where I , under the guidance of [name], led seminars and prepared course materials on optimization methods in
machine learning. These roles have allowed me to mentor others while solidifying my
own understanding of optimization concepts.
From SMILES-2025, I hope to gain knowledge from the leading experts about the
latest advances in generative AI, both from a theoretical and implementaion
viewpoint. As I have alrreaady mentioned, I am mostly interested in text and code
generation, but I am sure that other provided materials would be extremely useful. I
also look forward to engaging with other participants and faculty to build
collaborations and learn from the rich experiences of others.
In general, my career goal is to become a researcher with a good expertise in the field
of ML, particularly in RL and generative models. I intend to get a PhD after
completing my Master’s degree, so I believe the knowledge and practical experience
gained from SMILES will be extremely useful on that path. Participating in this
summer schoool will not only broaden my research horizons but also enhance my
ability to contribute to both academic research and real-world innovation.
Thank you for considering my application. I look forward to discussing my
opportunity to participate in SMILES-2025.
Sincerely,
[name]