Dear [name]
My name is [name], and I am writing to you to express my interest in pursuing a summer school in Machine learning at [compaany].
My professional journey began at the [compaany], an international organization, in which my work consistently involved analyzing time series, macroeconomic modelling and forecasting economic indicators. Later, I transitioned to an analyst role in two leading [compaany]. The key tasks as a position were to make clustering of entities by ML tools, as well as to create the models estimating credit risks during volatile times and models for price options of deposits. Both models have similar background, particular Vasicek and Hull-White models with Monter Carlo.
To compliment my professional experience, I possess a strong academic background encompassing studies in economics and statistics across [location], [location], and [location]. Throughout my academic pursuits, I endeavored to reinforce my acquired knowledge through published research. Notably, during my economics studies, I authored several articles focusing on the analysis time series and macroeconomic modelling. As a result, I published several articles on estimation equilibrium exchange rate and demand and supply of foreign currencies by households and firms (behavior models). During my study at the [location] I delved into Bayesian inference, MCMC algorithm and reinforcement learning. To consolidate my knowledge in statistics, the working paper was also published in a scientific journal, in which the effectiveness of Bayesian and frequentist models on time series was compared.
Despite earning the Master's degree in Economics from the [compaany] and the Master’s degree in Statistics in the [location], I persistently strive to enhance my quantitative skills and knowledge. Inter alia, I participated in summer programs organized by the [compaany] and professional courses provided by the [compaany] in [location].
Recently, I have delved into data scientist track, particularly I studied at the Advanced machine learning and Reinforcement learning courses in [compaany]. Both have given me not only deep understanding of theories, but also allowed me to put these theories into practice. Now I am studying at the Quant school, in which I focus on stochastics process and programming in python and C++.
While working in the commercial sector, my expertise in statistics and economics substantially expanded, and gradually, I dived more and more into machine learning. The brilliant example of this movement is the change of programs. To illustrate my keen interest in this area, I must mention that instead of using statistical packages (Matlab, EViews), which I used up to 2020, and I now code all my models using python. My studies at [location] were a great impulse for that switch, and my current work has allowed me to significantly improve my skills in programming and machine learning.
My motivation for participation in the program at [compaany] bases on several reasons. Now I stay an interdisciplinary development path, in particular, on the one hand, finances, on the other, Data Scientist. For myself, I’m trying to understand whether it is worth staying on this path or completely go toLLM and data analysis. The program of the summer school coincides with my interests. For example, now I am working on an assessment of the tonality of economic documents with different methods. In particular, I collected a database from press releases of the Central Banks of Central Asia and Eastern Europe in Russian and English. I have evaluated their sentiment with different methods (dictionaries, classification of ML, pre-learning models and neural networks). This study was divided into subtasks: firstly, to evaluate the sentiment of the monetary statements and find the economic indicators at which the authorities look at the decision on the key rate. For example, many Central Bank takes care about inflation and construct discussion around prices. However, indicators of economic activity also have a high correlation with the sentiment index. Secondly, compare the monetary decision in Russian and English and, in the case of discrepancy, is needed to determine the problem (linguistic restrictions on models or a really different signal into the economy and the external sector). This work serves me very much not only in terms of analysis, but also writing the optimal code.
Thus, having listened to the lectures of teachers, their research will be easier for me to determine. In addition, this school is a good opportunity to talk to colleagues lively with similar interests and motivation for research.
Best wishes,
[name]