Dear Admissions Committee,
My name is [name] [surname]. I am a fourtth-year student at [location] [compaany], majoring in International Relations in scientific and industrial sphere.
This year I have been completing my studies in the program and preparing for admission to the Master's program “Neurobiology and Neurorehabilitation” of [compaany]. My current specialty, connecting the humanitarian and technical
fields, is focused on training specialists to establish relationships, maintain cooperation and
conduct projects in the scientific field. My areas of interest include a diverse set of discipline
such as neuroscience, mathematics, genetics, programming, machine learning, and foreign
languages ([language], [language], [language]).
This year I started to immerse myself in the study of mathematics and machine learning that
makes up models of our lives, and it is very interesting for me to study this issue from different
angles, from different discipline. I gained experience working with artificial intelligence
algorithms during my undergraduate studies and current job, and now I am studying the
mathematical foundations of artificial intelligence. To develop my skills, study the subject in
more depth and find a topic for research, I want to participate in this program. I want to apply
my knowledge in the field of modern machine learning in conjunction with my other passion for
neuroscience. I believe that specialists at the intersection of mathematics, machine learning
(artificial intelligence) and neuroscience will be able to make new breakthroughs in the near
future, which is why it is worth developing their competencies in these excellent areas.
Even before I entered my undergraduate studies, I was fascinated by the workings of the brain
and knew that I would pursue a second degree in the field of neuroscience. I have always aimed
to understand how the human brain works. During my undergraduate studies I have been
participating in various projects, research, and conferences related to the field of neuroscience.
This year, I participated in the Spring SchooL on "Next-Generation Neurointerfaces," where I not
only gained new knowledge and interacted with specialists but also took part in practical
experiments with TMS (Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation) and EEG (Electroencephalography).
At the moment, I am involved in two researches alonsgside a [compaany] a second-year graduaate
student in the Neurobiology and Neurorehabilitation program, under the guidance of Professor [surname] [surname]. In all my tasks, I encounter machine learning, which motivates me
to study it even more intensively.
I am currentlly developing my knowledge and skills in the field of neuroscience and
neurotechnology, more experience I have in projects related to programming and software
development, some of which were also related to neuroscience or biological signal processing.
This knowledge and experience I have been gaining during internships in [compaany] and the
[compaany].
In my opinion, an interdisciplinary approach and vision will be useful in any scientific work, and
that's what I'm developing in myself. I am sure that this program can unite such versatile people
who are ready to develop in several directions and combiine the knowlege gained, coming to
new conclusions and solutions that are not obvious at first glance. Participation in the program
will give me a great opportunity not only to acquire a professional foundaition and knowledge
for further work in machine learning in mixture with neuroscience, but also, first of all, to
communicate with foreign experts, find out and discuss their point of view on emerging
scientific issues, to get into the ranks of like-minded people. I believe that communication and
cooperation in science is one of the most important factors for successful work and promotion
of science.
Thank you for considering my application.
Sincerely,
[name] [surname].