Motivation letter
My name is [name], I am a 5th-year student at the Faculty of Physics at [location]. Back in school, I felt an irresistible attraction to data mining. Now, I am currently using artificial intelligence (AI) methods to solve scientific problems, and I see my further professional development in this area. But first things first!
Briefly about my school education: I studied at an English-language school until the 8th grade; after winning prizes in physics and mathematics olympiads, I entered an engineering school with advanced studies in mathematics, physics and computer science.
Thanks to my diligent studies, I managed to graduate from high school with a red diploma, pass the Unified State Exam in physics with 100 points, win several list Olympiads and enroll in the university of my dreams. I was also awarded the grant of the President of the [country] "For special abilities and high achievements in the field of mathematics, computer science and digital technologies" for the successes listed above.
University education gave me a deep understanding of mathematical disciplines, which, combined with programming skills, led me into the world of machine learning (ML). I've been working hard in this direction for the last four years. I have completed optional courses on AI: IFC "Introduction to Deep Learning" (2024); "Introduction to generative-adversarial networks" ([compaany] 2024); completed educational modules: summer school of machine learning "SMILES-24", "Inverse incorrect tasks and machine learning" and "Digital methods and artificial intelligence in the energy sector" ([compaany] 2024-25).
And scientific work at the Laboratory of Adaptive Data Processing Methods ([location] Research Institute of Nuclear Physics) allowed us to consolidate our skills in using these tools in practice.
In my 3rd year, I became interested in neuroscience. The result of this was the completion of the course "Sensory and motor systems of the brain", participation in the educational shift "Modern methods of cognitive research" on the basis of the [location] Research Center and the publication of the results of the study "Application of MEG data for the analysis of lexical semantics of words" in the IEEE journal, in which I was responsible for the application of AI methods to the analysis of MEG data.
Another object of my interest is genetic algorithms: by translating the principles of biological evolution into computer language, they are particularly good at multi-modal, significantly nonlinear tasks. Due to this, for example, these algorithms are widely used in practice in economic problems where the analytical search for the optimal solution is difficult or impossible. I was able to make several improvements to this algorithm and show their effectiveness, which was discussed at scientific conferences and described in articles published in the journals Springer and Proceedings of science. My presentations at the conferences "Neuroinformatics-2022" and "Neuroinformatics-2023", held at [location] and [location], were awarded the 2nd place in the competition "Scientific papers of young scientists".
All modern neural network approaches are based on a universal block, a fully connected neural layer (NN). However, about a year ago, the scientific community rediscovered the Kolmogorov-Arnold layer (KAN), an alternative to NN that demonstrates the best approximation capability for a large number of both test and practical problems. I was inspired by the idea of KAN, so I immediately started implementing it in my research: during the current year, I applied KAN to the inverse problems of geophysics and spectroscopy.
Thanks to these works, I managed to become the winner of the competition for the award of Andrey Leonidovich Mikaelya. In my opinion, the main potential of KAN lies in its explainability and interpretability, so I decided to devote my further scientific work to this topic and described it in my presentation to “SMILES-2025”.
Today, AI is actively used at the forefront of many fields of human activity: from technological production, advisory systems, and safety systems to nuclear reaction research in accelerators and astronomy. I believe that the exchange of experience between AI researchers from different applied fields can greatly enrich the achievements of modern neuroscience. An example is the popular diffusion models that appeared at the junction of statistical physics and generative algorithms. I try to participate in such an exchange of knowledge, I help in organizing conferences and scientific workshops: in December 2024, I organized the conference "AI in science and education", moderated the section "AI in exact sciences".
The experience gained from SMILES-2024 working with segmentation frameworks and GANs has greatly expanded the range of my professional skills; and working acquaintances with colleagues of this shift have proved to be extremely effective throughout the current year. I hope that the SMILES-2025 summer school will also become a platform for communication and development of talented people, and I would be happy to participate in it.
Sincerely, [name]