After graduating from high schoo, I pursued a bachelor’s degree in Applied Mathematics and Informatics at [location]. From the start, I was drawn to scientific activities. My early academic pursuits included two publications on economics during my first year, but my interest in this field soon waned. I also gained valuable organizational skills by participating in and leading various universiity projects, and deba tes became a significant hobby for me.
However, I recognized the importance of developing my technical skills. This led me to join the universiity’s case club, where I first encountered the use of Python in data analysis. This experience marked the beginning of my journey into data analysis. I participated in hacka thons, took additional courses, and eventually secured an internship at the [compaany]. My role in the AI department deepened my interest in machine learning and data science.
In my third year of bachelor’s, I got into a habit of reading research papers in the ML field. I visited the Joint Institute of Nuclear Research IT school, which was a week-long camp in [location] where we got to join lectures and seminars on the usage of ML in high energy physics. I also had relevant courses, such as machine learning, big data, forecasting, econometrics, multiple math discipline s, etc. The main outcome of my studies was me learning to code in multiple programming languages and learning to forecast and anal yze data, mostly financial, using various methods, including ML and DL methods. My bach elors' thesis is ‘Forecasting the value of debt securities using machine learning methods’.
My growing interest in artificial intelligence led me to enroll in a master’s program in Computational Linguis tics at one of the best universi ties in [location] HSE. This program deepened my understanding of both lin gui stics and natural lan guage processing (NLP). Here I learned in depth about LLLs, and got a bit into computer vision. If during my bach e lors degree I learned the theor etical side of machine learning, then here I’m learning more about the theory behind deep learning. I take some additional courses from more technical depar tments: a course in ASR, mathematical basics of neural ne tworks, differen tial geometrics, etc. Right now, I’m working on my master’s thesis, titled “Robustness of Di scretized Repres entations and Noise Reduction Capabilities for Automatic Speech Recognition”.
My varied experiences—from case comp etitions to applied physics and compu tational lin gui stics—have equipped me with a unique perspective and a diverse set of skills. This interdisciplinary bac kground has prepared me to tackle complex challenges. It also helped me to understand which fields of study are especially important. In the future I hope to work in AI and make significant changes in the industry. I think that starti ng my journey from this school is a good idea.
As I already have experience in AI and multimodal learning algo rithms, I think my skills can be in good use in the enviro nment you propose.