LETTER OF MOTIVATION
Dear Sir/Madam,
When I was four years old, my father taught me how to play chess. He showed me different combi combinations and said, “Our life is similar in some ways to the game of chess: you should learn to calculate every outcome before acting.” It was an eye-opening experience for me, and after that whether I was playing games with my friends or helping my parents with agricultural work, I learned to look ahead, calculating every outcome in advance. Even today, after calculating the possible variants by researching multiple programs around the world, I have decided that this Summer School of Machine Learning is a guaranteed checkmate in my favor!
I am currently pursuing a master’s degree in Big Data and Machine Learning at [location] [university], where I have gained hands-on experience in machine learning, statistical modelling, and computational modelling.
My interdisciplinary approach—bridging mathematics, data science, and applied research—has allowed me to develop a strong foundation in AI methodologies and their real-world applications.
My research has mainly concentrated on utilizing machine learning for automating processes and for deriving insights from intricate datasets. During my time as an exchange student at [location] in 2022, I worked as an intern in the Department of Engineering Sciences and Technology and AI project for energy efficiency optimization. Using ensemble learning, I improved the accuracy of my time-series forecasting models for energy optimization by feature engineering. Later, I built upon this work with Dr. [name], where I undertook the role of a research assistant in his group from August 2024 until February 2025. As a research assistant in the Applied Thermal Physics group at the Institute of Building, Energy, and Materials Technology of [location], I focused on enhancing energy efficiency in buildings. My main task was participating in the research aimed at increasing the energy efficiency of the built environment by simulating numerically the solutions to heat diffusion equations. I also used my skills in data analysis and machine learning to create insights from large datasets, optimize models of energy consumption, and enhance thermal control predictive models.
I also developed a benchmark framework for assessing the stability, creativity, and transparency of large language models which I defended at the “Congress of Young Scientists” in 2024 and 2025. In this work, I deeply analysed the behaviour of these token-level models by setting the temperature parameter to zero in order to minimize randomness in the responses and tested the rigidity of the model systemically with the MERA benchmark. These projects required me to apply advanced statistical modelling and programming skills and given my familiarity with Python and statistical modelling techniques, I am eager to expand my expertise during the summer school. In addition to everything, I am really interested with the school, and I want to work in the Large Language Models (LLMs) direction to share my knowledge and gain new insights.
Beyond the classroom, my studies in [location] and [location] have helped me develop a worldwide perspective. My exposure to a variety of multicultural settings has improved my flexibility, communication abilities, and capacity to work well with researchers from various backgrounds. My commitment to using technology for social impact is also demonstrated by my interest for AI-driven education, which has inspired me to create an AI-powered learning platform that creates quizzes from multilingual video content, which is I am working on right now.
Moreover, I am an outstanding chess player and the former champion of chess in [location]. Chess has honed my strategic thinking, pattern identification, and problem solving; abilities which profoundly impact my scientific work. I believe that this thought process together with my deep knowledge will enable me to address multifaceted research challenges with accuracy and ingenuity. Lastly, I strongly believe that with this summer school, I will be able to expand my social network and enhance my understanding of machine learning and large language models. I also understand that the environment will be very diverse, and I would be thrilled to learn about new cultures and contribute to that enriching environment with my experience and the culture of [location]!
Thank you for considering my application. I look forward to hearing from you at your earliest convenience.
Sincerely,
[name] [surname]