Dear Committee,
My name is [name] [surname] and I am an ambitious ML-researcher.
I am currently a fourth-year [chemistry] undergraduate at the [Higher School of Economics]. Since my first year, I have been working as a research chemist in the Group of Effective Catalysis at [company], which has allowed me to actively contribute to [location]'s scientific community while pursuing my degree. I was engaged in the research and synthesis of chiral organic frameworks additionally stabilized by hydrogen bonds. These systems showed high selectivity and efficiency as heterogeneous catalysts of asymmetric C-C bond formation, which was studied on the target reaction of the drug [warfarin]. Also, for the first time we have reported methods of immobilization of heterogeneous catalysts by using cryostructurates of natural polysaccharides as matrices. This project was conducted in collaboration with [company] with the possibility of potential industrial application of these methods. Within that time, I have had the opportunity to participate in numerous projects involving different areas of chemistry. This participation has allowed me to attend several major international conferences and to excel in numerous student competitions.
Currently, chemical science has collected an enormous amount of poorly utilized data. I believe that applying machine learning to this data has significant potential - for example, to predict the physical properties of polymers, the characteristics of high-energy materials, or the electronic properties of complex systems. Even the last Nobel Prize in Chemistry focused on the application of artificial intelligence to protein structure prediction, which is what sparked my interest in machine learning. This realization led me, after completing courses in chemometrics and chemoinformatics at the beginning of my fourth year - to shift my academic focus and embark on a thorough self-study of machine learning. Thus, I studied various ML and DL courses, created models that copy the architectures of various computer vision models like TinyVGG to classify food images on the food101 dataset, worked with NLP and LLM, created Transformer architectures to create a German to English translator and more.
I then moved to the [GRIMM lab], where I am currently working with a team on a major project to develop a seq2seq transformer architecture capable of predicting one-dimensional proton and carbon NMR spectra from chemically meaningful fragments obtained from SMILES representations by heuristic partitioning. So far, this task has only been solved using graph neural networks, so exploring transformer-based approaches is a very promising area of development. We are also actively working on the inverse problem of predicting the chemical structure from a set of NMR spectra, which is even more complex due to the fact that this architecture should be split into two transformers, one allowing to predict molecular fragments from a set of one-dimensional NMR spectra and the second allowing to recover the SMILES representation from a set of fragments.
Recently, I took part in a student-camp from [Yandex] and [MIPT] Generative AI and robots, where for the first time I was able to attend extremely informative lectures and workshops, which allowed me to greatly expand my knowledge of machine learning and its application in robotics. But when I heard about the [Skoitech] SMILES 2025 summer school, I immediately realized that I would be extremely interested in participating because of the current LLM directions and the opportunity to learn about multi-agent systems. I also like the inspiring group of speakers, in particular I would be happy to talk to [Andrey Kuznetsov] in person, as I am interested in his work on multimodal systems. I am also very sympathetic to the opportunity to share the results of my research in a poster session and discuss them with the scientific community. Participating in this school will allow me to further immerse myself in the scientific ML environment, which is extremely promising for my future research that I will conduct in my master's course. I believe that this experience will help me in the future to lead research groups that can utilize the huge amount of accumulated chemical data to solve today's problems.
Sincerely,
[name] [surname]