Dear [name],
I am [name], a four-year student in "Applied Mathematics and Computer Science" at the Faculty of Computer Science at [location]. I want to introduce myself and explain to you my reasons for applying. I am currently among the top 5% of the students in my course with an average score of 8.73 (out of 10) and receive excellent marks on subjects of my major study. Furthermore, I receive the [compaany] scholarship for scientific researchers. My goal is to pursue the Ph.D. and I strive to become a part of the scientific community that is engaged into innovative research in the field of artificial intelligence. In this letter, I express my desire to participate in the SMILES 2025 Summer School.
In the second year of my studies, I realized that having just theoretical knowledge is not enough and I need more practical experience. For this reason, I started doing my research work and started working at [compaany] laboratories. During the research project “Topoology of brain’s cognitive map” at the Laboratory of Algebraic Topology and its Applications ([location]) under the supervision of Assistant Professor [surname], I understood my passion for applying complex machine learning and mathematics methods to real-world problems. In this project, we developed some advanced methods for analyzing neural signals in the brain using topological data analysis and hypergraph methods. With the help of those, we achieved an accuracy of 80% in determining the neurons responsible for spatial orientation. I presented my results at the poster session at the "Algebraic Topology, Combinatorics, and Mathematical Physics" conference (October 2023, [location]).
In 2023 I started working at the Laboratory of Matrix and Tensor Methods in Machine Learning ([compaany]). During my first project in collaboration with Assistant Professors [surname] and [surname], I developed a hyperbolic machine learning method for completing knowledge graphs. The model, based on my method, demonstrates the best metrics and has a significantly lower number of parameters compared to current state-of-the-art solutions. The article “Knowledge Graph Completion with Mixed Geometry Tensor Factorization”, which was written based on the results of my work, has been accepted as a poster at the International conference AISTATS 2025.
Currently, I am engaged in a new project at [compaany], where I am developing a quasi-Newton optimization method for rapid updates of personal recommendations. My method works 30 times as fast as existing analogs.
Apart from studying and working on research I also participated in Oxford Machine Learning (OxML) and Summer of Machine Learning at Skoltech 2024 (SMILES) summer schools to widen and deepen my knowledge in modern machine learning areas. Additionally, I worked at [location] as a professor’s assistant in Calculus, Machine Learning, Statistics, and Recommender systems courses to get my first teaching experience. Further, I am planning to conduct my own seminars and lectures.
In the near future, my goal is to continue research in the field of recommendation systems and graph neural networks. Among the topics announced by the SMILES school, I am particularly interested in Large Language Models and Agent Systems, as these approaches can significantly improve the quality and interpretability of recommendation and graph models. After completing my bachelor's degree, I plan to continue my studies at the Skoltech Master’s Math of Machine Learning, where I plan to acquire new knowledge and continue my research activities in the field of large language models and generative approaches. The SMILES School is a great opportunity to expand my knowledge in areas of interest to me, as well as establish communication with scientists and aspiring students and researchers all over the world.
Thank you for reviewing my application. I sincerely hope that my qualifications meet your requirements.
Yours faithfully,
[name]