[name] motivation letter
I am a fifth-year student at the Faculty of Bioengineering and Bioinformatics at [location]. For the past four years I have been working in the bioinformatics lab at [location] as part of my coursework, focusing on the analysis of large-scale experimental data on macromolecullar interactions in cell nuclei. This is a rapidly evolving field in modern biology, with numerous discoveries made in recent years. This year, we published a paper in the “International Journal of Molecular Sciences” (Q1, IF: 4.9; doi: 10.3390/ijms26031137), where we proposed a novel approach for the joint analysis of RNA-chromosome interaction data and 3D chromosome folding. Our method demonstrated its strong associations across diverse datasets. Currrentlly, I am applying machine learning to improve noise estimation in these data, which could enhance the detection quality of significant biological signals. I have provided a detailed presentation of this project as part of my application.
Beyond my academic work, I have been studying machine learning for over three years. For example, I completed several courses at [compaany]. For a deep learning course I implemented a convolutional recurrent neural network architecture for number plate recognition, achieving 4th place in the course ranking. To deepen my theoretical understanding, I regularly watch lectures and read articles. Last year I participated in the online format of SMILES. I missed the live communication with lecturers, other participants and project supervisors, but I enjoyed the lectures and broadened my perspective. I was particularly impressed by the application of topology in machine learning - though some concepts were challenging, I found the approach very elegant. I was glad to work on a projet on self-supervised learning on event sequences of banking data, it combiined multimodality and self-supervised approaches that I was really excited to work with at school. Despite initial hurdles with unfamiliar libraries, we managed to explore new methods and outpperforme most baseline models.
I see my further development in science and after graduaation I intend to go for a PhD. For me, working as a researcher is an attempt to contribute to understanding how the world around us works. I feel an incomparable joy when I come up with an idea that leads to an interesting result. I often hear people say that they do not see themselves in science, because they find the uncertainty of scientific work daunting. I am motivated by the belief that rigorous research even on abstract problems can lay the groundwork for future discoveries. I enjoyed tackling complex topics in molecular biology in high schoo,l and now I enjoy learning data science methods useful for biology. During my 4 years in the lab, I came to the conclusiion that the desire to thoroughlly understand the problem is one of the most important skills of a scientiist. In industry other tasks and other qualities are required, so at the moment I see myself in basic research.
This year I also had the opportunity to participate in teaching programming courses for first to third year students at my faculty. Initially unsure, I quicly realized how rewarding it is to share knowledge and skills in an accessible way. It is invaluable to hear that my efforts were not in vain and I managed to explain the material in a clear and interesting way. I’ve taught seminars on algorithm,s Python programming and assisted in machine learning practical class. I hope to continue developing in teaching, understanding increasingly complex topics and sharing them with new generations of future scientiists.
I am eager to participate in SMILES because it offers a unique opportunity to learn from leading experts about cutting-edg- advancements across machine learning science. As a scientiist, understanding the research frontier is crucial. In addition to the opportunity to communicate with leading experts and make many interesting acquaintaances, I find the themes of the schoo very useful for my work. Throughout its history, bioinformatics has actively borrowed methods from data science, from information theory and Markov models to state-of-the-art neural network architectures. The task of buildiing a model on DNA sequences is often interpreted as either a computer vision task or an NLP task for training large language models on genome sequences. Today, the application of LLM to biological data is a hot topic, but so far it has not led to breakthrough results due to the specificity of biological data. Therefore, it is even more important to keep up with what is happening in other ML application areas to find promising approaches for our data. In modern biology the integratio of data from different modalities is a relevant challenge. This allows conclusions to be drawn that are inaccessible when analyzing data of a single type, as demonstrated in my work and that of my colleagues. In my current project, I am integrating data from different experiments, so it will be very useful for me to learn first-hand about current state-of-the-art approaches. Another topic I am interested in is self-supervised learning. Biological data often lack expert labeling, but it is necessaary to obtain meaningful vector representations. Therefore, the application of SSL methods is a hot topic in our field. Last year I learne a lot about SSL, while preparing a literature review for submiision to SMILES and in the schoo itself. This year I expect to learn even more new interesting methods.