Motivation letter
The correct model of the brain directly mimicking its structural and functional capabilities is still a challenging and unresolved problem. I’ve been wondering about its abilities in information processing, goal setting and long-term planning competence in highly uncertain environments with lots of noise or information since school. Lately we got to build models with an ability to approximate some of its behavioral patterns.
When these sophisticated models first appeared on the market, they looked impressive. However, the rigorous understanding of these algorithms, their limitations and robustness is still lacking. The attendance at the [compaany] summer school is another step towards this goal for me.
Even in school I was quite profound in math, studying in a specialized school with a major in CS. However, back then I appeared to attend a lecture in formal linguistics which led me to the School of Linguistics at [location] where I studied mostly formal approaches to natural language understanding and limitations of its internal structure. I’ve also taken a major in Neuroscience and Neurolinguistics in order to get a better understanding of the modular structure of the brain and its information processing abilities. However, in the last year of my Bachelor's studies I found that I became more interested in computational aspects of the processes involved in learning in general.
Building on this foundation, I pursued a Master’s degree in Computational Linguistics with a primary focus on advancing my math skills by taking courses primarily from the CS department – either as part of my regular coursework or as elective courses, including courses on topological data analysis, tensor computations etc., which I managed to pass at the same level as STEM students. I also started to actively engage in research focused on machine learning which led to two first-author publications, one with more focus on NLP, transfer learning and modularization of knowledge in language models and the other one addressed the problem of anisotropy of representations using tools from computational topology.
Recently, in the second year of my master’s degree, I also managed to combine my full-time job as a data scientist with the study in the university since summer. My primary job was to test the deep learning models for robustness, fairness and alignment (mostly LLMs and code completion models). My recent second year masters research under the supervision of Dr. [name] mainly focuses on applications of linear, tensor algebra and Riemannian optimization to deep learning problems. One project is dedicated to improving certified robustness of CV models, and the masters thesis aims towards the development of adaptive whitening approaches to tackle rank collapse.
During summer internship I aspire to advance my knowledge of reinforcement learning and multiagent systems. I’m also genuinely interested in alignment theories and mathematical approaches to AI Safety. Besides this, I also view this internship as an opportunity to meet new people, passionate about AI research and establish contacts for collaborations in future.
After completing the research internship, I aspire to continue pushing the limits of machine learning research during the PhD starting in September. I have no doubt that the research experience at [compaany] would provide me with the skills and knowledge necessary to make significant contributions to the field.
Regards,
[name] [surname]