To anyone it concerns,
I am writing this letter to apply for the Summer School of Machine Learning. To be honest,
my journey into ML has not followed the typical path. Just two years back, I was pretty conflicted
about this whole field. I could build hardware to gather and analyze data just fine, but I had a
naggiing skepticism about AI and related technologies. I thought they were overhyped and would
probably collapse soon as it happened to the dotcoms 25 years ago.
Thanks to some enthusiastic people, I had a chance to look at ML not as real-world magic,
but as a set of powerful tools with a strong mathematical and engineering background behind them.
This revelation opened my eyes, eliminated preconceptions and straightforwardly connected the
rapidly developing field with the inner needs of mine. Finally, the next year and half of my life
have been made ascertain. I finished the courses dedicated to ML, DL and NLP with A grades,
participated in many projects, starting from time series classification with a meta-learning
technique, followed with image and text classification. Eventually, I even participated in
developing a concept of an AI agent for business-processes analysis and implemented some of its
features inside the standalone LLM-based bot that worked quite well for a self-hosted solution
made with a lightweight LLM.
Not every project was a home run, but none of them made me doubt my path. If anything,
each project hammered home just how much more there is to discover in this field. All in all, the
Dunning-Kruger effect has been known for 30 years by now, so being aware of it, I have been
going forward to new problems.
That way I have recently encountered another problem, which is the non-homogenous
nature of the processed data – instead of purely tabular or visual data, the problem I had
encountered, requires the processing of multi-source data and coherent analysis of it. In particular,
the project on the automatic coin grading, appeared to have the distribution shift that can be
potentially solved by adding the contextual information about the graded coin via a textual
database. This and many other tasks are the domain where I see multimodal and multi-agent
systems shining.
The multiagent systems can also contribute to similar problems solution by federating the
tasks between the agents, which do the parts of the whole task better, thus increasing the overall
performance of the system. While the use of these systems is limited to the easy-automatable tasks,
I am expecting their advancements in the industrial planning, as their statistical basis may help to
improve risk assessments by finding complex dependencies, that could not be derived manually,
and achieve better control over complex structures such as enterprises. To some extent it is
comparable to the way how the natural systems are working.
The last, but not the least reason of my application is the chance to get new acquaintance with
the people, united with the same interests as mine. While the AI technologies evolve rapidly,
emerging new ideas, models, frameworks and theories almost every day, it is become hard to track
all valuable ideas on my own. The Summer School offers a shift from the solo learning to the group
learning with a chance to synthesis the new ideas with a newly acquainted mates Speaking
honestly, this is a second to none reason of my application to the school.
I am aware that the scheduled program is packed with intense learning sessions and
finalized with a hackathon. However, I see it not as another challenge but the fast track to
improving my knowledge about cutting-edge topics in AI by dedicating to them two weeks instead
of spreading it to several months. Moreover, I am confident about my hard skills, so I am ready to
tackle challenging problems and contribute meaningfully to team projects during the hackathon. I
believe that the SMILES will be a meaningful experience in my professional journey, providing
me with the knowledge, connections, and inspiration to further pursue my applied research
interests in the cutting-edge trends of ML.
Thank you for considering my application. I am looking forward to your response!
With the best regards,
[name] [surname]