Motivation letter
[name]
I’m interested in the geoinformaation domain of ML/DL since 2020 and have several papers covering its
applications. Being involved in the research and education and having an industry petroleum experience
in 2007-2019 in the international [compaany] nowadays I manage the work with students and personal technical progress in geo AI in academia.
As an associate professor at the Faculty of Geography and Geographic Informaition Technologies, [compaany] I
develop and deliver the course with classical ML and networks in DL. Teaching of a course on machine
learning in solving spatial problems is as part of Master's Degree in Spatial Data and Applied
Geoanalytics, opened at the Faculty in 2024 ([email]).
Modern capabilities of geoinformaation technolologies, which allow integrating various information, provide
opportunities to study the processes and phenomena, to identiify patterns and to search solutions
systematically. Development of a road network model for the forestry of the [location] is
importaant for understanding the current state of roads of public and special use (winter and summer
roads), forecasting the dynamics of changes at the regional level and studying spatial relationships with
neighboring regions. Road network model will be implemented in the form of technologicaal solutions as
forestry roads geodatabase which has capabilities to be scaled and integrate updates.
Project relevance of road recognition from the imagery is a need to find new possible ways to safe forest
ecosystems and forest resources from fires using modern methods of analyzing spatially distributed data
on the forests and roads infrastructure of different seasonality of use. For such an analysis, it is necessaary
to use available Open data sources and Open Source GIS tools, as well as artificial intelligence (AI)
methods to recogniize geometry, type of pavement and road condition, which in total means new
opportunities for solving transport problems in the forestry. In my mind the project of road recognition
should be resulted with a regional model and geodatabase of road network of the [location],
Russia with data on the types and seasonality, methodology and technologicaal implementation with Open
Data and Open Source software as published geoservice.
In 2022-2025 there is a continuous activity in the geoinformaation application for the infrastructure like
roads and linked with them objects. Papers and conferences presentations about Yolo versions and
modifications are coming almost every month this year so there is a promising technology base which
could be of help in the forestry domain to solve recognition tasks like wildfires and state of infrastructure.
Forestry in [location] is not just an industry but a field where we can connect forestry objects like forest
roads with infrastructure and territory development.
ChatGPT in geoinformatics is my area of additional interest since its first official release in November
2022, several presentations were delivered for the public events in 2024-2025.
I’m actively develop my presentation skills and ML/DL by participating in the conferences, meetups
online and offlinne both in [location] and globally, its detailed list is in CV. Useful experience also in being
gained from the competitions for research funding like known among researchers Russian Science
Foundation and Potanin Foundation. In order to keep my forestry experience relevant to present, I’ve
collaboraated as a reviewer of papers on ML/DL with the European Journal of Forest Engineering
([email]) since 2024.
Expectaions from the Summer Schoo l program in Harbin are the extended knowledge on the networks
for object recognition, mainly of linear form like roads, LLM for education. I plan to accumulate the
current research activities in DL and experience from the colleagues to improve the content of my course
on geo ML at [compaany]. For the years to come I do strongly view myself as universiity teacher and researcher.