Dear [name],
I am interested in the opportunity to participate in the SMILES 2025 Summer School. In this letter, I would like to
express my interest and explain why I am a qualified candidate for this school.
After reviewing the program and goals of the school, I am convinced that this is the perfect place for me to expand
my knowledge and skills in machine learning. I was attracted by the opportunity to participate in an intensive course
that will bring together young professionals around the problems of artificial intelligence at the site of [location]. Large language models and multimodal systems have high potential for application beyond
their original field of text and image processing. In particular, transformer-like architectures have already been
repeatedly applied to modeling phenomena in the field of biomedical research. My unique experience at the edge of
machine learning and biology will allows me to find further applications of such architectures to solving modern
problems in this area.
My path in machine learning began during my work on my master's thesis at [company], when I developed a method for
computer image analysis to study the dynamics of epigenetic changes in living cells. One of the methods for studying
intracellular processes is the use of genetically encoded fluorescent markers in cells with their subsequent
microscopy, which in turn requires quantitative image analysis. My experience with fluorescence microscopy and
image analysis became the starting point for understanding the importance of computer data analysis and its
application in scientific research.
To master modern methods of computer data analysis, I took a course in computer vision at [university],
which gave me confidence in my abilities and made me even more interested in machine learning. I realized that
computer science is not an inaccessible science for me, and was able to develop my programming skills, which
became an important tool in my scientific work.
In an effort to gain deeper and more structured knowledge in the field of machine learning and apply it in my
research, I successfully completed the online training and final testing at the SMILES-2023 summer school. It was a
wonderful experience that gave me the opportunity to get to know the cutting-edge approaches in the field better.
Unfortunately, the online format did not allow me to fully participate in the school programs, since due to the disunity
of the participants in the online program, it was not possible to carry out project activities. In-person participation
in SMILES-2024 gave me an extremely productive experience of teamwork, fruitful and lively communication with
colleagues, which led to new solutions and collaborations in my scientific work. This year, I would also like to take
part in the in-person training format in order to actualize my understanding of modern topics at a new level and
reinforce this in practice in a teamwork. I am especially attracted by the opportunity to practice my spoken English
skills during teamwork on hackathons projects, as well as at lectures and seminars at the school.
I am confident that participation in the SMILES 2025 Summer School will give me the opportunity to learn how to
apply modern statistical machine learning methods to real-world problems at a new level, as well as meet talented
participants and experts in the field.
I want to use the knowledge and skills I have gained to improve my current work and expand the boundaries of my
scientific research. The SMILES 2025 Summer School is an opportunity for me to expand my understanding of
modern machine learning trends and their application to real-world problems. Thanks to my background in physics
and engineering and experience working with data, I am confident that I will be able to contribute to the learning
process and effectively acquire new knowledge.
Thank you for considering my application. I am ready to put my best efforts into becoming an active participant in
the SMILES Machine Learning Summer School and making my contribution to the academic and scientific fields. I am
looking forward to immersing myself in the exciting world of machine learning and taking part in your program.
Sincerely, [name]
[surname] +2 *** *** ***