I am a first-year Master's student in the ML program at [compaany] and I want to express my strong desire to attend the SMILES 2025 Summer School. My journey into ML began during my undergraduate studies in physics. For my bachelor’ thesis, I investigated the mechanisms of gamma-ray flares in blazars. I used geometrical models and ML techniques to study connections between real flares and simulated ones. As with many problems, it is crucial to try different approaches and get feedback from experts in different areas. During my research I tested a lot of methods: from converting flares to images and using BYOL (bootstrap your own latent) approach to using a simple RNN. In the end, I have chosen variational autoencoders (VAE) as the most robust and accurate approach. With this project I participated in two conferences.
This experience sparked my interest about how ML can reveal insights in complex natural phenomena like astronomy. I decided to expand my knowledge in ml in order to apply it in the future in applied sciences. Since then, I've been building my skills through theory and practice. I started by developing different personal projects in CV and NLP - for example, a style transfer model and movie review classifier. Additionally, I received industry experience in the ML industry by working as an intern at companies like [compaany] and [compaany]. At [compaany] I contributed by improving LLM systems within a RAG framework for a client service bot. I launched various architecural experiments and hypothesis tests, which ultimately led the team to adopt a new production architecture based on the successful findings. During my time at [compaany], I tackled keyword spotting tasks and engaged in research and experimental projects. Although none of these experiments brought desired results, the experience was quite valuable and contributed to my growth in the field. Very important part of learning ML was participating in Kaggle competitions. I tried to apply ML across various domains like healthcare, finance, and environmental science and it helped me learn useful techniques, like Pseudo Labeling, hyperparameter optimization. At one of the competitions the goal was to predict a list of species at a given location using various geographical and environmental data. My successful participation in it allowed me to write a technical paper for the CLEF2024 conference.
Recently, I joined a collaborative project with [compaany] researchers developing novel methods for LLM-based CAD model generation conditioned on 3D representation. This reverse engineering challenge consists of reconstructing the sketch and CAD operations from point clouds or meshes. So far, the project is only under development and I am studying relevant works and approaches that utilise autoregresisive generation and diffusion-based methods with gradual token unmasking. We plan to utilize pretrained encoders like PointNet++ for point cloud conditioning, with plans to develop specialized mesh encoders and implement LLM fine-tuning techniques.
My motivation to attend the SMILES 2025 Summer School is to get inspiration and feedback for my project. I wish to expand my knowledge of the ML applications and get hands-on experience with multimodal approaches that may help me better understand how to effectively combine 3D spatial data with LLM. Additionally I’m willing to learn advanced techniques for conditioning generative models on complex 3D structures and how to efficiently fine-tune foundation models for specialized domains with limited data. It will be valuable for me to get inspiration and feedback for my project, get hands-on experience with generative methods of adopting pretrained models in my task. Additionally I hope to contribute as I can as someone transitioning from theoretical physics to machine learning.