Motivation Letter: SMILES 2025
Admissions Committee,
My name is [name] and I am a fourth-year undergraduate student at the [compaany], majoring in Applied Mathematics and Informatics with a specialization in Machine Learning and Applications. With this letter I’d like to express my strong interest in attending the Summer School in Machine Learning in [location].
To start with, I’d like to briefly describe my professional background. As I mentioned, for more than 2 years I’m really into ML. During my time at university I mastered a lot of relevant courses: ReinforcementLearning, NaturalLanguageProcessing,BayesianMethods,EfficientMachineLearning and Advanced Deep Learning. Also I implemented several projects covering a great variety topics, including efficient model compression, data-parallel and mixed-precision training, fastLLMinference (using triton and speculative deciding), buildiing RAG LLM system and training diffusion models.
Moving further, I’ve already been engaged in research for more than a year. Following a mini-course on generative models, I found my research advisor, [surname], and initiated a project focused on "Semantic Image Editing with GANs." Within this project, I explored a novel approach that aligns texts and images with the help of a multimodal model by optimizing in the space of intermediate feature maps of StyleGAN, to modify semantic features of faces, such as hair. The results of my work were presented at several poster sessions and I enjoyed this process very much because it provides fruitful discussions, which result in novel ideas and inspiration. I really like the presence of the poster session on SMILES and would be glad to participate and discuss my work within international professionals, receive valuable feedback, and get inspired by the research of others.
When it comes to ongoing projects, I continue to work on my thesis, which focuses on improving encoder architectures for StyleGAN by incorporating spatial information from face segmentation networks to enable more accurate and controllable image editing. The part I’m personally responsible for is formulating and testing hypotheses, conducting experiments, and regularly discussing the results with my supervisor.
Looking ahead, I plan to pursue a Master’s degree at [compaany], continue to work on advanced research in generative models and their applications in real-world systems. In connection to that, I think that Summer School is one of the best opportunities to get acquainted with the [compaany] students and lecturers. Moreover, I think that the School’s diverse community from universities all around the globe may result in great research collaboration and work on joint papers. I’m 100% sure that networking is one of the most valuable opportunities that SMILES provides, that’s why I will be really happy to spend 2 weeks in a friendly atmosphere with your community, spending time not only studying, but also communicating a lot and helping others as a volunteer.
Frankly speaking, I am also very excited by the curriculum and studying perspectives. I’m looking forward to attending lectures by top experts such as [name], whose work in efficient LLLMs closely aligns with my own interests in fast inference and model optimization, and [name], whose research in safe AI I find especially relevant to the ethical challenges in generative systems.
I am also highly motivated to apply all the received knowledge in practice and to take part in a hands-on project under the guidance of experienced mentors like [name], [name], and [name]. I believe that collaborating with them on a project would allow me to both advance my existing skills and also gain new experience in scaling and adapting generative AI in real-world applications. This practical, mentor-driven format of the Summer School is especially appealing to me, as it shows the real power of collaboration, fast prototyping and testing different ideas and approaches, which is very useful in a scientific environment.
To sum up, I think that SMILES is an incredible opportunity to spend time in a great community, listening to lectures that strongly align with my interests, networking, and having fun with like-minded and easy-going people, exploring [location]'s immense historical and technological landscape together and getting unlimited inspiration and motivation for new discoveries from this wonderful trip!
Sincerely,
[name]