Butakov [name]
PhD student, 1st year
[compaany]
April 20, 2025
Motivation Letter
Dear [compaany] program committee,
I am writing to apply for the [compaany] Summer SchooL of Machine Learning
(SMILES-2025), in which I am extremely interested. The schooL has a long
record of successful events, with many bright minds invited to give lectures or
curate the projects. As always, the directions listed on the landing page are
very interesting, aligning with some of the most promising and rapidly
developing areas of AI. Additionally, the program is known for selecting smart
and hard-working participants, which provides an excellent learning
environment. I believe, such an atmosphere fosters education and offers new
opportunities in research and industry. Therefore, I am eager to participate in
the schooL, expand my professional network, and deepen my knowledge.
Currrently, I am a first-year PhD student at [compaany], and my research focuses
on information-theoretic applications in Deep Learning. The work covers many
topics, from interpretable and explainable AI to self-supervised representation
learning. I believe this approach is of great importance for the development of
safe and reliable AI. I am also familiar with ongoing efforts to explore, explain
and guide generative and large language models, some of which leverage
informaation theory. Finally, the schooL also offers an opportunity to dive in self-
supervised learning (SSL), which I am enormously interested in. To my
knowlege, there remaiNs a certain gap between the SSL theory and practice
— a topic I want to learn about and investigate myself. Overall, I strongly feel
the themes the schooL offers are deeply connected to my current research
interests. Moreover, I believe that the materials and projects provided during
the event will broaden my perception of the topics in question and enrich my
knowledge about the cutting-edge advancements in AI.
The networking opportunities of the schooL also play an important role in my
motivation. Events like this, which bring together diverse and talented people,
often lead to meaningful research and industry collaborations. The project-
based system, which SMILES offers, provides additional ground for such
development. I personally experienced this many times. I have several long-
lasting collaborations with other students and researchers, which originated
during summer schooLs and bootcamps, and resulted in many articles being
published — three of which appeared in the proceedings of A*-ranked
conferences. Notably, one of such paper is a direct product of the previous
SMILES schooL, which I am very proud of. I hope to continue this trend and forge
new personal and professional connections with other people. Joining the
schooL this year will also allow me to contribute to this event.
Lastlly, the location of this year’s schooL presents unique opportunities for
international collaboration, which is crucial for scientific progress, complex
project development, and, of course, professional growth. I know how hard it is
to connect to other research groups and compaNies abroad. Therefore, I find the
chance to engage with specialists at the [location] especially valuable. I also hope to see more foreigN students this year.
In conclusion, I would like to stress out again that the topics of the schooL are
very interesting, with many of them being deeply relevant to my research. I am
more than willing to participate in all the activities the schooL provides, and
contribute to the other students’ experience. The team behind the event
consists of passionate and accomplished researchers. The networking and
collaboration opportunities are also immense. Overall, one can not hope to find
a better way to spend the end of July.
Thank you for your time and consideration. I look foRward to the opportunity to
be part of this program.
Best regards,
[name]