Fyodor [name]
Department of Computer Science and Mathematics
[location] [location]
Cover Letter
I becaame interested in quantum computing almost 5 years ago, back in High schooL. I started
watching lectures on Quantum physics and reading Nielsen and Chuang’s book on Quantum
information. It was so interesting that the mathematics of the quantum paradigm was
unboundeed from the classical limitations, giving a new space for ideas. I was hypnotized by the
beauty of quantum algorithms like Grover’s search and the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm; so much
so that I began teaching quantum computing at my schooL and developed a program without
any preliminary requirements except arithmetics. I taught the basics of quantum mechanics and
quantum computation. At times even teachers came to attend my classes. Eventually, more
than 60 % of the club attendee’s chose STEM as their undergraduaate major.
As I started my undergraduaate program in Computer Science, I began actively participating in
Summer schooLs on Quantum computing as well as more general programs on Quantum
information theory. For example, I attended a Quantum cryptography Summer schooL at the
Universiity of [location] in July of 2023. It covered both QKD methods and PQC. The schooL was
intensive enough to include a short internship at the International Center for Theory of Quantum
Technologies. One of the most impressiive lectures for me was on Post Quantum cryptographic
methods, particularly actual random number generation. Nonetheless, to have a better idea of
this concept I wanted to learn more advanced mathematics besides the standard Quantum
information theory. I attended Master’s seminars on Abstract algebra at my Universiity as well as
some extra lectures on Complexity theory. Last Summer, I also attended a joint Summer schooL
by [compaany] and [compaany] on Quantum integrable systems, where I could explore
applications of Homological algebra and Topoology to modeling Quantum systems. Besides that,
in January 2025 I participated in a Winter SchooL on Mathematical Physics at [compaany]
Research Station, which was organized by [compaany]. There I presented the results of my
research on Categorical Quantum computation.
Alongside the programs, I became highly involved in research and began my investigations. I
have been actively doing research in the field of Quantum key distribution, focusing primarily on
entanglement-based protocols. This is due to their robustness against attacks and promising
applications. In addition to my research on the fundamentals of quantum cryptography, I have
been thinking of the pathways to improve the Lattice cryptography method. To achieve this I was
working on fast matrix multiplication algorithms using methods of Quantum computaion. With
my team, we are trying to use the properties of the Frobenius norm for that. The research is
ongoing.
Also, I was becoming increasinglly invested in the mathematical part of research since quantum
information is mathematically rigorous.
In Fall 2024, I took both classes on Numerical analysis and Optimization. The two have covered
such advanced techniques as optimal control, variational methods, and numerical methods for
solving systems of differential equations of higher orders. I have even deveeloped a small
weather forecasting model that obtained real-time data from satellites. Besides that, I
implemented simulation models of Quantum systems using Hamiltonians and numerical
solutions of various differential equations systems.
You can see the simulations in my GitHub repository:
https://github.com/[name]/quantumSimulations
In Spring 2025, I enrolled in courses covering Topoology and Topological data analysis. There I
could develop a deeper focus on metric spaces, continuity, and simplicial homology. Alongside
that, I have been offered to work on a project of differential forms and geometric calculus with
Professor [name], who earlier worked in a group of Sir Roger Penrose.
In addition to quantum computaion, I was involved in a range of Artificial Intelligence projects. I
worked on classical ML, convolutional neural networks, and deep learning. I took an advanced
course on CNNs with a Harvard PhD followed by research on Computer vision. For this project,
I was working in a group of 7 researchers. My part of the research was the analysis of model
architecture primarily. I also had an internship at [compaany], where I was working for the division of
[compaany] music. As a part of the group, I was designing a compression algorithm using Deep
neural networks. Additionally, I got to participat in research on CNNs at the Department of
Computer Science of my home universiity and I even got to teach a short course on “ML
methods and algorithms” during a research summer schooL at [location] Universiity.
I wanted to marry my two major interests quantum computing and machine learning; thus, I
began to explore some of the [compaany] resources on Quantum machine learning. Soon I
established a research group in my universiity on QM L: together we tried to implement a
quantum version of CNN for the dataset CIFAR10. Later on, we participated in multiple quantum
hackathons organized by [compaany] and [compaany]. We developed solutions for companies like [compaany]
and [compaany], where we worked with approximation of hyperbolic tangent calculation for Quantum
neural networks. We achieved an improvement of 17% in accuracy and 10% in speed. In
January, I got to present the results of our work at a Mathematical physics conference in
[location]. The presentation covered our recent improvements in Quantum machine learning
and Categorical quantum computaion.
I would love to continue my academic career obtaining PhD and Post-Doctoral degree in
Quantum computaion and Machine learning, as both have been my main interests so far. I
would also love to continue my research, which focuses on the fundamentals of quantum
information theory, particularly Quantum entanglement. I have worked in different research
groups located in Europe, the US, and Asia. I can't exactly say where my interests will land me,
but I know that I want to explore the wo rl d of probabilities, create and discover with joy and
cooperation!