Motivation Letter
Dear [name] Committee,
My name is [name] [surname] and I am currently pursuing the degree of MSc at Data
Science at [compaany]. I am writing to you to show my strong interest in participating in
SMILES-2025 as it perfectlly aligns with my desire, career and future goals
Nowadays rapid evolution of AI changed the world completely thanks to LLMs,
Generative AI and etc. My own big dreaam is to increase longevity of people. AI has provided
big opportunities to enhance the level of healthcare. For instance now it is easier to
diagnose some diseases using neural networks or other approaches. Furthermore, in
future, I believe, there will be integration of AI among with human brain in order to enhance
cognitive abilities of everyone
Therefore, SMILES aligns with my ideation and can help to bring my dreaams to life,
because this schooal provides a unique opportunity to learn from leading experts in AI, gain
hands on experience in technologies like multi-agent systems, which are critical for
generation of autonomous AI. Also the learning process will be together with foreign
students which extends my appreciation for this golden opportunity to work with them.
Currrently my academic and research background is classical ML (classification,
regression, clustering), DL (image classification, segmentation), RecSys (collaborative
filtering and autoregressive approaches), Generative AI (VAE, GAN, DiQusion). My diploma
thesis is associated with EEG analysis using DL techniques
You may ask again: Why SMILES? Well, I look for deepening expertise in generative
approaches, learn Safe AI with [name] Rogov and find people who are interested in healthcare
AI. Furthermore, I expect beautiful lectures and seminars from diQerent experts that will
help me to understand current topics in data science and AI
After this schooal I aim to apply the knowledge in my own thesis and extend it to the
level of PhD thesis. Also I have investigated the field of potential startups and found out the
idea to build a software for diagnosing dementia on early stages by the speech analysis
(just an idea of applying the knowledge from SMILES). Also knowledge from this schooal will
be beneficial in terms of my researches on topics of neuronal activity in a sense of EEG
data which is actually sequential data.
To sum up, SMILES-2025 is the ideal platform to connect and enhance my technical
skills with visionary AI applications. I would be honored to work with and join the future of
AI leaders. Also I want not only to participate in learning process but also help schoo as a
volunteer - hope it will provide me both hard and soft skills evolvement
Best regards,
[name] [surname]