[name]
[email]
[location]
April 20, 2025
Dear [name] Organizers,
My journey into the world of machine learning (ML) started in 2021 when I attended
my first basic ML course, and since then, it has grown into both academic interest and
a full-time job. Now, I am a final-year master’s student at [compaany] and a researcher at the
[compaany] Lab, where I work on advancing the natural language processing (NLP). I am
eagertoimprovemy skillsandcollabo ratewithleadingMLexpertsat theSMILEs summer
schoo l.
My career as a NLP researcher started when I was accepte dfor an internship program
at the [compaany] Lab. During the past three years, I have been actively working on
many different ML projects including developing NLP tools for an open-source [compaany]
library, participat ingin ML compe titions and publishin gthe results of my research.
My first research topic was on few-shot intent classification. I designed a novel
metho dology based on a discriminative nearest n eigbor classification system, integrated
it into a [compaany] library and later presented it on international conference AIST.
As a master’s student in an ML-focused program I continue to increase my specializa-
tion in NLP, CV and RL, and deve loped an optical character recognition (OCR) system for
Russian lan gua ge as a part of the CV course project.
Over the last year I significa ntly accele rated my research efforts and published mul-
tiple papers on both A and A* conferences. First, I deve loped a robust metho dology for
generating a synthetic NER dataset, and then used this dataset to increase the diversity of
texts and entity types in the [compaany] NER model, which you can try on the demo page.
As a continuation of this work, I deve loped a metho dology for generating a fully synthetic
dataset for detection of personal identifiable information (PII). The paper, which summa-
rizes this work, was rece ntly accepte dto the N AACL S RW workshop. Finally, I participated
in solving two tasks at SemEval-2025 compe tition. My teams secured 3rd place in the
hallucination detection task in several lan gua ges and 7th place in the tabular question an-
swering. The papers for both tasks have been accepte dto a SemEval workshop alongside
ACL-2025.
In the long term,my goa listopu rsueaPhDi ncomputerscience,workingonAisafety
and explainability, as these areas are crucial for buildi ngmodels which we can trust. I am
especially interested in explainability as the ability to understand the model’s decision-
making process of the model will not o nl yensure alignment with human goals, but also
helpusundertandthereasonsfordecision,wh ichIthinkmayeev enmorevaluab lethan
the decision itself.
As for the schoo litself, I am looking fo rw ardto an intensi ve research experience,
where I could consume tons of information every day and accele rate my growt has a re-
searcher. I e njoy working in a team, and I am confident that my background and collabo-
rative skills will allow me to get along with everyone and make a mea ningful contribution
to the final project.
The topics of this year’s summer schoo l, particularly large lan gua ge models, align
perfectl ywith my current research and future plans. This program is a great oppo rtunity
to learn from top-tier researchers and collabo rate with other participants. I hope to es-
tabli sh research colla borations, which may lead to future joint research projects with the
pa rticipan ts and possib ly even the organizers.
Attending the SMILES summer schoo l is a unique oppo rtunity for me to grow as a
researcher and gather new conne ctions. I would be honore dto participat eand colla borate
oncutting-e dgeMLp rojects wit hp eersandleadingMLexperts. Thankyouforconside ring
my application.
Kind Regards,
[name]
Applicant