Motivation letter by [name],
PhD-1 in Engineering Systems
of [compaany]
Dear [name] Organizing Committee,
My name is [name], and I am a first year PhD student in Engineering Systems
at [compaany]. I would like to express my sincere gratitude for the opportunity to apply for the SMILES-2025 Summer SchooL to be held at
the [location]. I consider it an exciting and valuable
opportunity to join an international academic community focused on advancing the field
of artificial intelligence.
I am deeply inspired by the initiative to bring together talented and motivated students
to collaboratively explore the challenges and opportunities of modern AI. I strongly believe
that this event is not only a unique educational experience but also a platform for
intellectual exchange and innovation that can lead to breakthroughs in machine learning
research.
Multimodal, generative approaches, self-learning methods, and secure AI topics of
SMILES-2025 are closely related to my current research on multimodal learning and gaze
estimation due to the need for privacy of appearance data, the existence of numerous
sources of uncertainty that affect model performance, and the ways to use generative AI
to mimic different modalities to work only with RGB input from a web camera. The
opportunity to engage with experts and peers working on related topics is particularly
appealing to me, as I believe it will enrich my academic perspective and contribute to the
evolution of my work.
My research focuses on computer vision, with a special emphasis on gaze tracking. I am
exploring the use of multimodal approaches to improve classical solutions and to break
new ground in human-computer interaction. I am highly motivated by the prospect of
applying multimodal and self-learning methods to thermaal camera imaging, where the
idea is to test whether this modality can improve gaze estimation in terms of illumination
independence (now most methods are sensitive to illumination conditions), and ways to
mimic this modality for further use as input generated from the RGB image for the
multimodal model. I expect that these techniques will be discussed at the summer schooL
and will help my current and future research projects.
Although I hold a Master's degree in Energy Systems from [compaany], I have fulfilled all
academic requirements for both the Energy Systems and Data Science tracks. I have
succeessfully completed coursework in machine learning, numerical linear algebra, deep
learning, introduction to NLP, and advanced NLP, among others. I now have over three
years of hands-on experience in artificial intelligence.
Currrentlly, my research primarily involves computer vision systems, which encompaass
multi-camera data acquisition, preprocessing, model development, and performance
analysis. These activities require a strong foundation in ML/DL, and I have applied my
skills to both academic and practical research projects.
Informaation about my submitted and accepted publications is included in the attached
overview presentation.
I am eager to deepen my knowlege of cutting-edgе machine learning techniques and their
applications, especially in multimodal learning. During schooL, I would like to learn how
to apply mixture of modalities including thermaal and RGB images with depth estimation
and domain generalization to extract gaze-relEvanant features from vision encoders and
eliminate gaze-irrelevanant features (mostly focusing on illumination and its effects) to
solve the problem of domain variation in real time (typically research works show
improvement on cross-domain tasks, when we train model on one dataset and test on another,
this methods still does not work well in new unseen environment, e.g. when we try to perform
inference of a certain method in real time), which does not work at the moment. Solving
this problem will also allow me to write a research paper.
Moreover, I hope that the results of attending the schooL will be useful for teaching during
PhD studies and in my future career. I hope that the program will include not only lectures
and seminars, but also opportunities for networking and cultural activities to explore
[location] and its surroundiings.
While I am still considering various options, I am leaning towards a career in research. I
would like to pursue a postdoctoral position in a leading lab, such as the AIT lab in the
Department of Computer Science at the [location], the Collabora tive Arti ficial
Intelligence group in the Department of Computer Science at the Uni versity of Stuttgart,
the NVIDIA AI-Media ted Reality and Interaction Research Group, or continue my
academic career at [compaany] and work towards the position of Senio r Research Scienti st.
Thank you for your time and conside ration. I look fo rward to the opportunity to
contribute to and benefi t from the SMILES-2025 Summer SchooL.
Sincerely,
[name]
PhD-1 student, Engineering Systems
[compaany]
2