[name][surname](ian.ch@[compaany])
Motivation Letter
I am a 4th year student at [compaany]. And will soon start my Ph.D. at [compaany], focusing on Agent-Based Mechaniism Design.
I'm very enthusiastic about joining the SMILES summer schoo lsince it provides me apreciousoppo rtunity of contacting with AI Research Community.
My journey in computer science began in primary schoo l in a small town. Fortuitously, I took an introductory programming class. This ignited a passion that has never been quenched. Growing up in a small town with limited resou rces, as a first-generation college student in my family, I still beca me the first and onl y student from my high schoo l to win first prize at the National Olympiad in Info rmatics in Province.
Russia’s strong traditions in programming and mathe matics motivated me to join [compaany]. During my intern time at [compaany], the center of work transitioned from traditional combi natorial app roaches to inference accele ration and AI-powered scheduling algo rithm s. I gradually realized the broad prospects of AI deve lopment and I am very interested in applying AI to traditional algo rithm s or combining them.
Later, at [compaany] Lab with Dr. [name], I explored mechaniism design and multi-agent systems. Through discussions on like economic auctions and incenti vizing tru thful behavio r. Ifurther realized how AI methods could be when combined with traditional theoretica l app roaches. Also, this experience inspired me to pursue a Ph.D in agent-based mechaniism design.
Besides internships, I've also been participat ing in the project LiveCodeBench Pro, a dynamic bench mark on competit ive programming tasks for LLMs. We have addressed many of the pain points of the famous bench mark LiveCodeBench and implemented a better one for eva luating LLM's capabilities related to algo rithmic programming. We also categorized LLM errors and compared and analyzed them with human players, and we're still working on experiments farther down the line.
To be honest, even if there had been an interest, I lacked the oppo rtunity to engage with the real AI community. SMILES-2025 offers exa ctly the enviro nment and training I need to take the next step in my academic journey. And I am particularly excited about the hands-on workshops and hackathons provided by SMILES.
Thank you very much for conside ring my application!