I really want to go to this school, because it will help me develop in an interesting direction for me and use the knowledge I have gained for the further education of children. Also, I hope that during the school I will be able to write a project that will be truly useful to society.
I have been involved in educational activities for 3 years now. I lead a club on Olympiad economics at my school for children in grades 7-9. There are already winners of the Olympiads, for example...... I also do various projects on economics with schoolchildren, for example, "Study of the Phillips Curve", "Comparison of the Efficiency of Monetary Policies of Central Banks" and "Study of the Minimum Wage Policy". All the work is done at the intersection of economics and data analysis. The projects participated in various conferences, from internal school to external (Science with a Thousand Faces from [compaany]). I also have experience working as a team leader at a joint accelerator of my school and the [compaany].
In addition to conducting project activities for schoolchildren, I myself have been doing it for about 7 years. My portfolio contains many projects, mostly related to programming or economics. Already in the 6th grade, I started going to various conferences, from the Moscow State University project conference to the Baltic scientific and engineering competition. I have come a long way in my project activities, from a youth jury diploma for the project "Research of financial graphs" in the 7th grade at the Baltic competition (one of the most prestigious conferences for schoolchildren in [location]) to a 1st degree diploma and accompanying awards in the same Baltic scientific and engineering competition for the project "Babesiosis in dogs: statistical processing of test results" in the 10th grade. My project activities mainly touched on the field of programming, namely Ml - "Babesiosis in dogs: statistical processing of test results" and economics "Phillips curve" (before handing over the project to schoolchildren, I worked on it myself). Also, projects were implemented at the intersection of ML and Information Security - "Research of attacks on machine learning systems" (the project was created to participate in the regional stage of the All-Russian School of Information Security), and a project at the intersection of web development and social science "Silaeder store" (gamification store for my school), which participated in the Korean International Scientific Conference KSASF.
In addition to project activities, I participated in various hackathons and datathons from [compaany] (Brainz by [compaany]).
I also spent 2 years doing CTF (information security competitions). I participated in such competitions as AntiCTF, AeroCTF, and took 3rd place with my team at NordSchoolCTF.
I was also able to get an internship, and subsequently complete a piecework project on data analytics at [compaany]. I worked on their internal gamification store.