Dear [name],
I am writing to express my dedication in participating in the SMILES-2025 summer schoo.l. As an AI researcher and engineer, being able to participate in this prestigious event aligns well with my professional aspirations and personal interest.
My path began at schoo.l, where I showed my genuine interest in math and physics, I’ve starte.d to read [surname]'s “Entertaining physics” even before I enrolle.d into studying this subject at schoo.l. I’ve always wanted to become some sort of an engineer, but I had no clu.e about the area yet. In turn, my artificial intelligence journey began at the [location] of Physics and Technology ([compaany]), where I formed a keen interest in Computer Science, Applied math and AI.
Professionally, I accumulated much experience as a Deep Learning Engineer in [compaany], [compaany], [compaany] and [compaany] with specialization mostl.y in state-of-the-art generative models (GAN, VAE, LLM, Diffusion, Flow matching & normalizing flow, etc.). I served to create production-level diffusion and flow matching models for singing and music synthesis, ahead of the curve in LLM-based TTS solutions and creating complex generative sound systems. My role in [compaany] upgraded my understanding even more in multimodal generative methods, enablin.g me to generate the wo.rld's first FLUX LoRA models, and resulting in better photorealistic image generation with advanced generative techniques. Another important achievement is that I have been teaching for 3 years in AiMasters [compaany] program and have already gradua.ted more than 5 cohorts of students.
Being a member of SMILES-2025 excites me because of the unique inte.rsection of state-of-the-art generative methods, including multimodal and large langua.ge models areas I actively engage in, and wish to learn more about. I am particularly eager to learn about multi-agent systems and safe AI practices, seeing their relevance for future AI solutions.
Addititional.ly, this summer schoo.l provides a special pla.tform for international connectivity, particularly with academic colleagues from [location]. Familiarity with various metho.dologie.s and techniques in AI by [location] researchers is of great interest to me, and I am encou raged by oppo.rtunity to engage in sharing of information and ideas with our foreign colleagues.
Establishin.g professional connections with them will definitely create long-term professional relationships and may lay the groun.dwork for future collabora.tive projects as well.
To conclude, I would like to empha.size that SMILES-2025 represents a vital stepping stone in my journey as an AI Engineer and researcher, enablin.g me to refi.ne my skills, broaden my research horizons, and engage actively in global AI dialogues.
Thank you for conside.ring my application. I’m aspiring of the possib.lity to become a member of this wonderful community of researchers and enthusias.ts!
Sincerely,
[name]