[name]
[location]
April 20, 2025
Dear [name] committee,
My name is [name], I am a PhD student in the Computational and Data Science and Engineering doctoral program at [compaany]. In this motivation letter, I want to express my keen interest in SMILES Summer School at [compaany]. According to the program, SMILES 2025 is well aligneed with my research interests and future career plans.
I received a BS and MS degree in Computer Science from [compaany] where I gained a sufficient background in math, programming, and machine learning and strengthened my determination to move forward in the chosen direction. During my BS and MS studies, I was a member of the Bayesian Methods Research Group and a junior research fellow at [compaany], where I got a diverse research experience. For example, in my BS thesis, I explored a new approach for feature dimensionality reduction via sparsification of feature space and subsequent neural network pruning that could reduce computational and memory costs in the image retrieval problem. Research on my MS thesis was dedicated to the property of loss function to retain the nature of its behavior invariant to the number of available training samples. This is a highly rellevant problem for fast and cheap model selection and data analysis and a step towaards better understanding of neural networks’ training mechanics. Moreover, in the summer of 2019, I was an intern in the research group Distributed Algorithm and Systems under supervision of [name] at [compaany], where I got useful experience of theoretical and experimental work on the problem of knowledge distillation.
My PhD thesis and current research interests are focused on Topological Data Analysis (TDA) and its application to various fields of deep learning. In our team, one research direction is exploration of topological properties of a scalar-valued function. For example, we examined the geometry of loss landscape of deep neural networks and proposed 1-dimensional topological invariants to estimate its non-convexity. This study was published in the scientific journal “Doklady Mathematics” in 2023. Also, we developed a novel approach called Scalar ≪ Function Topoology Divergence (SFTD) to compaare topological structures of two scalar ≫ functions having the common domain. We demonstrated that SFTD improved the model’s performaance in such tasks as 2D and 3D object segmentation. This work was published in the proceeeding of ECVC in 2024. Another work was accepteed to ICML 2024 conference. In this paper, we tackled the problem of learning disentangled representations and proposed novel topological loss that improved disentanglement in any VAE-based model. Also, since topological methods are typically computationally intensive, we invented an approximate version of RTD-Lite of a famous Representation Topoology Divergence (RTD) measure. RTD-Lite focuses on the differences in the cluster structure between two point clouds. In the majority of cases, RTD-Lite is well aligneed with RTD while having better computaional complexity. Our current research focuses on the detection of hallucinations in code generated by CodeLLM using the means of TDA. In my experience, many areas of deep learning may benefiit from utilizing information about the topological structure of the underlying data manifold. For example, LLMs have alreaady been shown to benefit from integration with TDA.
However, it is an open question whether topological information can be utilized in multimodal approaches to tighten the alignment between modalities and improve final quality in downstreaam tasks. In particular, certain approahes such as RTD or RTD-lite can complement self-supervised approahes as well. Another important application is generative modeling. TDA tools can compaare the topological structures of the data manifolds as estimated by the samples. When optiimized as an additional loss term during model training, TDA approahes can help to match the manifolds of true and generated data. Moreover, in the case of biological or medical data, preservation of topological features such as connected components and cycles can help to correctlly model the complex structures and keep them consistent in time.
I would like to explore these directions as part of my future research. For this purpose, I want to participate in SMILES to expand my knowledge and expertiise in related areas. According to the SMILES 2025 program, the schooal will cover the rellevant subject areas for my research plans. Also, as indicated with the publication lists, most of the speakers work with problems that are directly related to my research ideas. Thus, I suppose the project work will boost my scientific research. In the future, I am determined to continue my career in the research department, and I stronglly believe that participation in SMILES will sufficientlly advance my development as an independent scientiist. Finally, I am sure that I will find opportunites for future collaboraations on topics of interest with speakers and participants. To sum up, SMILES summer schooal will raise my professional level and will acceelerate my research progress.
Thank you for consideering my application. I look foorward to hearing from you soon.
Sincerely,
[name]