Motivation letter (To[name])
Hello dear all! My name is [name], I'm a first year [compaany] PhD student (2024-2027),
[compaany] BSc graduate (with honors), [compaany] & [compaany] MSc graduate (with honors), [compaany] (2021 - 2023).
My research interests are mainly concentrated in two areas:
1) application of methods of information theory to machine learning problems (including analysis of
the process of learning neural networks); scientific supervisor - [name], Head of Wireless
[compaany]
2) Study of optimal partitioning of different spaces and factor-spaces into smaller diameter parts and
related problems of combinatorial geometry; scientific supervisors: [name], [name]
(both from [compaany])
Both of these studies are related to both mathematics and machine learning. I will tell you more about
this in the presentation devoted to my scientific activities, which is also attached to this application.
My research interests include applications of information theory to machine learning, combinatorial
geometry, application of optimization methods and machine learning to problems of combinatorial
geometry. The latter direction is related to several areas of the SMILES [compaany]: large language
models, multi-agent systems and generative approaches. In this letter I will try to talk about this in
more detail.
I have been taking part in the scientific summer schools on Machine Learning and Optimization for
young researchers since 2020. Thanks to the acquaintance of [name], Professor of [compaany], at
the summer project school in [location] in the summer of 2020 (after the 2nd year of bachelor's degree)
we formed a scientific group. (the team in which we did the project at that science school) in which
we continued research on the application of information theory to machine learning problems already
in [compaany]. As part of this activity, our team has written 5 papers, including 3 papers accepted at the
leading A* conferences (ICLR-2024, NeurIPS-2024, ICLR-2025). The first two papers are devoted to
the evaluation of mutual information through data compression and normalization streams. The third
article is devoted to generation of embedding from a given distribution (Distribution Matching) using
the Deep InfoMax approach.
Previously I participated in the SMILES [compaany] in 2023, which was held in [location]. At this school, I
received an award in a poster session for one of the best posters dedicated to our research on
information theory (these results were later accepted at ICLR-2024). In 2024, my colleague from this
study, [name], took part in the SMILES [compaany], who also won the award for the best poster
dedicated to our articles with I This confirms the importance of our research, and we are pleased that
it was recognized by the scientific committee of the SMILES [compaany].
Another area of my research is on combinatorial geometry. In the laboratory at [compaany], I study the
optimal partitioning of different spaces and factor-spaces into smaller parts of diameter. This problem
is closely related to the famous Borsuk hypothesis and is of particular interest in the partitioning of
Euclidean spaces. In the framework of this work, an optimization algorithm for searching for optimal
partitions of flat sets was developed, SAT-solvers were applied, including neural network approaches.
However, it seems promising to me to apply machine learning methods to find such optimal partitions
of various sets, to find structures of graphs (including distance graphs) with necessary properties. This
direction is very promising, and there are many areas for research here: code generation for optimal
partitions using large language models; multi-agent systems where each agent generates some graph,
and then using loss functions, an update of agent weights or other interaction between them, where the
best parts of the graph are used from I consider this summer school as an opportunity to learn more
about the application of generative modeling and multi-agent systems for such problems, which are
problems of fundamental mathematics and were previously solved only mathematically, but there is a
feeling that machine learning methods can significantly help in solving such problems and it will
be done by someone (hopefully.
In addition, this year the SMILES Summer School will be held in [country] and I am particularly
interested to participate in this summer school, including to see how scientific activities are organized
in Chinese universities, as well as to learn about possible scientific collaborations with researchers
from China. (I think everyone has heard about Chinese successes in artificial intelligence research). I
hope that my colleagues from the information theory project from [compaany] will also be selected to
participate in this school, so that we can present our results together, work on a project, the results of
which will be published in the future. For example, the idea of our article with ICLR-2025 originated
from the last SMILES [compaany] , which was attended by my colleagues, and during that school I was at
the main mathematical conference of Russia - the fourth conference of mathematical centers, which
was held in [location] at about the same time, where I presented the results on the second area of
my research - optimization.
In conclusion, I would like to participate in this summer school and in a wonderful community of
students with burning eyes and similarly interested teachers to learn about the applications of machine
learning, listen to new lectures and implement a joint project with others in the framework of the
summer school.