Motivation letter for [name]
Finishing the test tasks for the application to the Summer SchooL, I asked my friend about task #9 about calculating a gradient from a complex function. We agreed in the answers. Moreover, my friend ran the task through [company]. The model solved it with the only typo in the calculations, but still received the right answer. I was shocked by such a discovery - I was convinced that currentlly generative models barely cope with the systems of linear equations. Then we put the rest of the problems into [compaany], and it solved them all. In truth, my view of the world turned upside down. At this moment, I was even more convinced that I was obliged to catch up with the lost progress in the development of neural networks and participate in SMILES in [location] – the homeland of [company].
According to the profile of study and work - I am a researcher engineer in the field of material science. Due to interest in automation and analysis, my main tools are statistics and machine learning. To date, I have been using ML tools for 3 years. At the university, I mastered the basic courses on data analysis, ML and neural networks. Subsequently, I also went through DL courses for NLP and RL. Currrentlly, for a qualitative understanding of integrating ML solutions into work, I study ML Operations.
On an internship at the [name] Automatics Research InstiTutute (ROSATOM) in the Department of Computer Materials Science, I worked on optimizing the long-term strength of the material for nuclear reactors. I parsed data from an online database of experiments, conducted an analysis and built a pipeline for the design of the new material that utilizes data preprocessing, model selection and genetic optimization for the ensemble of models. Each step of the research revealed insights about both domain knowledge and applicability of certain ML methods. The results of the work were published in the scientific journal Materials Science Communicate. I talk about this work in the presentation attached to the application.
In the problems of materials science there is often little data by the scales of DL models, therefore the main tools of machine analysis in them are basic ML models. In my own experience and the experience of fellow researchers from [location], you can see that these tools show themselves well. At the same time, there is a strong question about the interpretation of ML research results. For me personally, the ability of models to extrapolate and estimate the confidence interval is of great interest.
The area itself is wide and has a vast literary heritage. Therefore, for me also a great interest is the application of generative DL to the task of generalizing domains of materials science and metallurgy.
For the past two years I have been working in the R&D department of [company] on projects to develop advanced methods of geological exploration and automation of metallurgical production. In the tasks we currentlly investigate the effectiveness of multimodal models.
At the Summer SchooL, I hope to meet specialists in different fields of application and learn about recent research and breakthrough approaches. It would be a personal goal to find specialists in the field of materials science, because in [location] in recent years there has been much work and publications in this area. In addition, I have not been a participant of the events from Skoltech until now, so I hope to get acquainted with colleagues from this universiity.
My career plans are to solve the problems of automation of production and the introduction of modern computing methods into other processes of mining and metallurgy. My experience with local specialists in the above-mentioned fields has shown scepticism and unawareness about the possibilities and achievements of ML methods in science. I am sure that international cooperation with [location] will contribute to the development of both parties and will allow us to build new communication channels.