Being the first generation in my family and surrounding society to experience the taste of higher education put me in a position of question marks on everything I do. Since childhood, I have been admiring technology and innovation especially after seeing smartphones and their ability. This was my initial push to study hard since then so that I can also work on projects that will transform and simplify life of people of not only my community but my country and the world at large. During exploration, software was the term that came in and I realised, it is designed and operates under software development thus causing a shift of interest to focus on software development. Things turned when Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning came up and I realised combining the two can yield a good product. To make a dream come true of my long-term goal, I applied for Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning as my area of focus on my Bachelors degree.
With this, I have been working on project related and finding opportunities where I can apply my expertise that I have gained through projects with research papers and I came to land on SMILES which seemed to be interesting and the provided directions to cover up aligns with my long-term career goals. This summer school can help me to extend to my skills as I have already worked on project, one of it being “Real Estate Price Prediction Using Random Forest and XGboost” and “Student Behavior Detection using YOLOv8”.
Having completed 5 semesters, and will be done with 6 semester this May on my undergraduate degree of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, I have gained the hands-on experience through lab with skills and knowledge of understanding theory part with concrete baseline. I have chosen this Program as best source of helping me drive deep into real life project in Machine Learning and Deep Learning offered by the SMILES. I have deep understanding on computer vision, machine learning involving classification and regression with ensemble learning, natural language processing and I want to work on real world problems (projects) that utilize my expertise. The topic provided looks interesting and presents on new challenge for me to learn, contribute and expanding knowledge and skills in problem solving, critical thinking and coming up with innovative solutions to real world problems.
Getting chance of being selected for The Skoltech Summer School of Machine Learning presents a unique opportunity for me in academia and professional journey. I will continue with elevating and breaking my boundaries in the field of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning and the gap between theoreticaI knowledge and practical application. This opportunity will not only help to grow as researcher but empower my vision of developing technologies that provide positive change in society. I am passionate, determinate and committed to learn, collaborate, and contributing to groundbreaking projects, my expertise and experience to ensure the completion of the project to mark a remarkable contribution on the research if given a chance. I am fully prepared to drive into challenges and opportunities this SMILES offers.