MOTIVATION LETTER
Growing up in a humble background back home in [location], has made me ambitious and eager to achieve higher milestones through working hard and smart. Having been mentored and inspired by different successful people, this has greatly influenced me to be the better version of myself, I am committed to using my expertise to elevate others and my country.
My academic journey has been fueled by triumphs and mixed specializations, from science specialization – (Physics, Mathematics, Economics and Informatics) in my high school, Diploma in Library and Information Science, and finally, Bachelor’s Degree in Information Systems and Technologies with a specialization in Info-communication Technologies.
It was at this point when I realized my potential and interest in my career. Out of all the courses, my performance in Machine Learning, Internet of Things, and Artificial Intelligence was excellent.
After realizing my ability, I focused on hands-on experience to solve real-world problems. I have worked several projects, including my diplom/final-year thesis, where I used computer vision techniques and proposed a design of a smart traffic management system for people with physical disabilities.
My paper from this project, entitled, “Inclusive and Intelligent Traffic Management System for the physically impaired utilizing YOLOv9” was accepted for publication in IEEE proceedings of Conference Record Number 65424.
Another accepted paper focuses on “Integrated Multi-stage AlgoRithm for Personalized Skincare Product” under Record Number 62650.
With that aside, I have had a chance to gain international exposure by working alongside world-renowned professors, agencies and reputable institutes for my internships and fellowships, with one being at [company] in [location], and other international events, such as, VIII BRICS International School, where I made presentations on “how BRICS countries can collaborate to develop a thriving AI market through coordinated trade of AI solutions and strategic investment initiatives”. At [company], my work focused on “A New Generation of Intelligent Information and Communication Technology, including 6G and wireless communications. This gave me a deep understanding and
confidence in my potential, given the large number of applicants, but only 16 of us were selected from applicants around the world, the organizers said.
With an interest in the intersection of technology, industry and community (the three pillars of production currently), the SMILES 2025 | Summer School of Machine Learning presents a unique opportunity for me to achieve this.
Given my expertise and ability, I have no doubt that I am the right candidate for this program. The summer school’s directions; Safe AI, Generative approaches and Large Language Models, perfectly resonates with my ambitions and focus. My country focuses on industrialization and a new generation of Intelligent Information and Communication, therefore, this program will give me a higher chance of being among the elites who can make a difference in my country’s economy by driving technology-centered innovation and research.
I look forward to taking part in the hands-on workshops and hackathons where I can put theory to practice in solving real-world problems alongside other talented students. I also look forward to learning from experts and connecting with people from around the world who share the same interests.
As a person who is ambitious and committed to achieving higher milestones, I would like to pursue a Master’s degree in Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence after completing my Bachelor’s degree. I envision some of work in AI solutions, especially, in smart cities, mobility systems and inclusive technologies for vulnerable communities which in turn will help in improving people’s lives.
Therefore, I see SMILES 2025 | Summer School of Machine Learning as a perfect stepping stone to facilitate the achievement of this dream.
In the hope that the Selection Committee will give my application favorable consideration, please accept the assurances of my highest consideration.