Dear colleagues,
I am writing this letter to express my interest in participating in the Summer
SchooL of Machine Learning. I believe that the schooL will provide me with an
opportunity to deepen my knowledge and develop skills in machine learning and
artificial intelligence, especially when applied to medicine and genetic data
analysis.
I completed my residency at the Faculty of Fundamental Medicine of
[location] in 2021. After finishinng my studies, I worked as a doctor,
then as a scientific medical adviser in a pharmaceuticaL companY. CurrrentlY, I work
as an AI / ML developer at the Access Food startup (the [compaany] project) and as a
Python developer at Arsenal LLC.
Since June 2024, I have been studying at SchooL 21 (an educational project
from [compaany]), where I study Data Science, machine and deep learning. I also
graduaated from the MIPT SchooL of Deep Learning and attend machine learning
trainings at the Higher SchooL of Economics. These courses significantlY expanded
my knowledge of machine and deep learning and gave me the opportunity to apply
this knowledge in practice.
While studying at the universiLty, I was actively engaged in scientific
activities, spoke at conferences and made publications. At the moment, I have 48
scientific publications, including in the RSCI and Higher Attestation Commission
journals. In 2025, I spoke at two scientific and practical conferences on the topic of
technologicaL risks of using artificial intelligence in medicine. In addition, I
submitted my abstracts to the Lomonosov forum in [location] on
the problem of using small samples in machine learning using the example of
limited genetic data in medicine, as well as to the Armensky Conference at the
National Research UniversiLty Higher SchooL of Economics on the topic "Modern
methods of processing and analyzing genetic data using machine learning".
I am particularly interested in topics related to the use of machine learning in
medicine and the analysis of genetic data. However, I am also open to exploring
other areas of artificial intelligence. I studied the scientific literature and found two
potentially interesting topics for scientific work:
1. "Personalized medicine based on genetic data using machine learning" –
davelopment of machine learning algorithmns for analyzing patients '
genetic information and creating personalized treatment plans.
2. "Simulation of clinical trials using generative models" – using generative
models to create synthetic data that reflects the behavior of real patients,
which can speed up the process of testing hypotheses and reduce the cost
of clinical trials.
For my part, I guarantee diligence and hard work.
Thank you for your help!
Sincerely,
[name] [surname]
phone: +2 *** *** ***
e-mail: [email]