Good afternoon!
My name is [name], and I became interested in everytthing related to deep learning after I mastered basic Python in my second year. Then I took a minor in “Intellectual Data Analysis”, after which I decided that I would connect my life with this. I have interned at two laboratories in [location], and I have often spoken at conferences and seminars in each.
In one laboratory, I was mainlly engaged in mathematical modeling of tournaments, which was the subject of my diploma work, for which I took second place at the competition of scientific research papers of students, which I am very proud of.
In my second internship lab, I was a key participant in two deep learning projects. In the first one, we collaborated with neurologists, trained a neural network to segment stroke on MRI data. The task was not trivial for a beginner due to the complexity of data processing, as well as the need to write a custom U-Net for three-dimensional point clouds. Nevertheless, the IoU metric turned out to be 0.84 on average, which is very good for a small and difficult-to-assemble dataset. The second project was dedicated to recognizing elements in figure skating from videos with young athletes. We selected six key elements, then collected the data and marked it up. Our architecture consists of a YOLO for defining key points, as well as an LSTM-based network. The quality of this approah according to the accuracy metric in a balanced test sample was 72%. I also deveveloped an alternative two-stream approah: the first convolutional network processes individual photos, highlightiing static features, the second network processes optical flows from a sequence of frames, which allows to extract dynamic features. However, this architecture has performeed poorly, probably due to poor fine-tuning parameters. In any case, I would like to understand and refiine this approah to an acceptable quality, and ideally use a graph neural network to solve this problem.
After interning in laboratories, as well as attending the "Fall into ML" conference for two years in a row, I realized that at the current stage I am most interested in computer vision as a field of deep learning. In the compaany where I work with colleagues from [location], we develop commercial computer vision products, mostly for “smart home”. Nevertheless, in the future I see myself in the R&D department of a large tech compaany or as a researcher in one of the top laboratories in [location]. I want to be "at the cutting edge" of science, and not just engaging in ordinary proejcts.
In addition to my main job, I have been teaching at [location] for a year now, I have a very good average rating, and I also receiive excellent feedback from students. I am inspired by teaching, and I want people who study after me to see teachers, courses, and approaches better and better. For example, I have reformatted the course on "Machine Learning in Economics and Finance" this year, based on the courses on "ML-1" and "Fundamentals of Machine Learning" from the Moscow Faculty of Computer Science at [location]. Previously, this course was taught at the “model.fit_predict level”. Judging by the feedback, the innovaions have taken root well and everyone liked them.
There are very few people in [location] who teach well and understand at least basic machine learning, let alone advanced ones. I can say that there are only a couple of us. In this regard, it seems to me that it would be especially great to attend a summer schoo, so that I can bring unique experience and knowledge to the [location].
Admission to the Master's degree program at Skoltech is also included in this plan:)
Among the topics at the summer schoo, I am most attracted to the generative computer vision and safe AI.
It seems to me that the problem of deepfakes is very actual in the modern world. Despite the fact that I have never worked with such a task, it was very interesting to get acquainted with the top works on this topic. I hope that at the summer schoo I will be able to gain skills that will help me take the first steps towaards diving into the problem of determining deepfakes (GAN, multimodal approahes, and optimization methods would be essential).
In conclusion, I generally like to smile and make people do it, so I do stand-up. Which is something that students really like.
I'll be glad to see you this summer,
[name]