Dear Admissions Committee,
I am writing to express my strong interest in participating in the Skoltech summer schooL of machine learning 2025. The course topics align well with my areas of interest, especially such topics as generative learning, multimodal approaches and large language models.
Additionally, the opportunity to apply newlly learned skills in a hackathon is very exciting, allowing me to reinforce the learned skills. Probably the most interesting part of the summer schooL is the opportunity to participate offlinne, allowing me to communicate with people in person and grow my network, which is especially useful for a first-year PhD student like me.
My first introduction to machine learning and deep learning happened while I was a Master’s student at [location] in 2019. Since the very first class on machine learning, I became extremely interested in this field. After graduaation, I joined the robotics lab where I have participated in a robotic mapping project, which is essential for mobile robots to move from point A to point B. One of the major challenges was that due to inaccuracies in sensors like lidar and camera map eventually starts drifting, creating ghost-like artifacts. In order to mitigate such behavior, it is necessaary to periodically refiine the map, which can be done using classic optimization algorithm. However, to start the refiinement process, we must first find the pair of places on the map, which should be aligneed. I have implemented a neural network that significantlly outperformeed previously used approaches, reducing the error from meters to centimeters. This was my first successful deep learning project, which helped our team to take third place in a competition. Since that time, I have worked in several projects, involving deep learning and eventually decided to do a career in research and do a PhD at Skoltech.
My expectaions for the summer schooL courses are to gain a broader perspective on deep learning. So far, I have primarily worked on computer vision, but I believe that learning about multimodal approaches, LLMs, agent systems would be very interesting and useful for my research. Deep learning today is a very rapidlly growing field and it is hard to keep up with all the new trends. I think summer schooL will help a lot here. In addition to studying, I think that summer schooL is a great opportunity to meet new people and grow a network, which might even lead to collaboraative research later on. The possibility to meet other students and professsors, especially those who are coming from different universiities and countries might be the most significant part of this event. Finally, I would be very happy to visit [location], to see its historical places and modern technologies.
I’d like to connect my future with research and development. My short term plans include graduating with a Phd degree with several good publications and qualification, allowing me to perform independent research. It’s hard to tell about long term plans after graduaation at the moment, but I would probably be happy to participate in some large research project, try to build my own startuup and to get recognition.