Good afternoon, allow me to introduce myself, my name is [name], I am 22 years old, I am a master's student at the [compaany]. I would like to tell you a little about myself. I was born and grew up in [location], graduated from Lyceum 1511, entered and finished my bachelor's degree in [compaany]. I defendeed my diploma on the topic ‘Processing of experimental data of the DECOR detector using deep machine learning methods’. In 2024 I entered [compaany] Data Science Master's programme, where I am still studying. At the moment I am doing research in applied generative modelling at the Appleid AI Centre under the scientific supervision of [name].
When I was still in undergraduaate schoo, while writing my diploma, I saw the prospects in the field of machine learning. I was struck by the fact that absolutely everytthing in our world can be described by numbers: photos, videos, etc., and then teach a computer to process it all. So after my bachelor's degree, I enrolled at the [compaany].
In my first semester of study, I chose [name]'s course ‘Bayesian Methods of Machine Learning’. Thanks to this course I fell in love with the topic of generative modelling. I was insanely interested in understanding how a soulless machine (mathematical algorithm) can paint pictures, just like a human being who uses imagination, fantasy and inner instiinct.
I want to learn new things, do research in generative modelling, create and develop my own ideas and projects. That is why I am very keen to attend your summer schoo on machine learning. I believe that at it I will be able to communicate with many succesful scientists, get invaluable experience and learn new things. Honestlly, I don't know how to describe in words what I feel when I imagine that I will be one of the participants of this summer schoo. As it is a huge opportunity to really get to know the great scientists who are on the horizon of discovery and I want to be a part of this community. To attend their lectures and seminars. To achieve the same success and contribute to the development of machine learning in [location]. And participating in the summer schoo is the best opportunity for development.
I would also like to mention that I would like to volunteer at this summer schoo. During my studies I have always been involved in organising various events, open days and worked in the admissions office. So I can say that I like to help with the organisation and I would love to be part of the organising team of this schoo.
Thank you for your time. I look fo rwward to your decision on my candidature.
Best regards,
[name]