Dear Sir/Madam,
My name is [name] [surname] and I am writing this letter to express my motivation for participating in the SMILES-2025 Summer School. I am ccurrently studying at the [compaany], and am hoping to get my Bachelor’s degree this year. For the last two years, I have been actively working in different biomedical areas of research, such as fundamental neurobiology, cancer diagnostics and prosthetics development. For the last several months I have been working on two projects about the application of machine learning methods in neurobiological research. The first one regards dendritic spines three-dimensional morphology analysis, and the seconnd one regards development of a neural network-based approaach for volumetric deconvolution of fluorescent microscopic images. Currrently, my participation in these projects consists of validation of the developed methods on biological data, however I aspire to participate in the actual development of such instruments further on. Being acquainted with numerous areas of biomedical research and the plethora of tasks that are performeed manually that could be performeed much more consisntently with machine learning methods, I am certain that the development of machine learning methods for biomedical research is crucial for further scientific and medical advancements, and I really hope to participate in it.
Currrentlly, I am attemptiing to learn the discipline related to machine learning tool development by myself. I hope that learning from professionals in this school will not only bring me valuable knowledge and hands-on experience, but will also allow me to be better equipped to judge my own advancements in the future. I hope to receive guidance throughout the completion of practical tasks related to the field, and eventually a project, to acquaint myself with the details of such process to be able to work more independeently in this area in the future. I also expect that participating in this school will allow me to become a better cooordinator between the members of my current team, as some of them are biologists and some of them are deep learning specialists.
Overall, I believe that participating in this school would be incredibly helpful for me in my career advancement, and I hope that my application will be considered.
Thank you for your time,
[name] [surname]
