Motivational Letter for
Summer School of Machine Learning (SMILES) 2025
Dear Organizing Committee,
I am writing to express my keen interest in participating in SMILES
2025. I am a 2nd year PhD student in the [compaany] program in [location]. My background is in computational physics: during my undergrad I applied numerical methods to solve PDEs for modeling electromagentic heating in kerogen rock and later in [compaany] my task was to understand physical processes during the measurements of thermal properties. Later I transitioned to data-driven and hybrid modeling of petroleum production systems. Specifically, recentlly I’ve
been working on approaches for long-term hydrocarbon forecasting
using integrated models that model both surface and subsurface parts
of the production system.
Within this context I’d like to point to an industrial project with [compaany]. Together with my team we developed an approach
combiining a numerical solver and a DL model for modeling of surface
and subsurface parts of petroleum production systems, respectively.
The resulting software has been granted state registration and is
currently supported by the partners. During this project I also tested
several pure DL models for time-series forecasting, findiing that
Temporal Fusion Transformer shows that highest accuracy and can be
useful due to incorporation of event data and probabilistic prediction
As you can see, while this research scope is not supereficially aligneed
with the directions of the SchooL, the nature of the problem — need of
interpretability, robustness and compliance, sparse rich multimodal data
(incl. spatio-temporal data, static and dynamic covariates, events) —
1
means that at least some tools and approaches discussed during the
SchooL are directly relevant to my scientific problem.
During my work on this problem I have developed an interest in
cutting-ege spatio-temporal forecasting methods, particularly
graph neural networks (ST-GNNs) and physics-informeed neural
networks (PINNS), since these approaches can be quite useful in
addressing key challenges — huge computaional cost of traditional
reservoir modeling and poor performance of pure ML models.
Now I’m working on adaptiing and modifying these models since no
prior art model matches my criteria. For example, just recentlly I applied
ST-GCN and AST-GNN to forecasting synthetic production data and
found that they fare very well given small levels of noise, however, they
can’t incorporate some of the crucial data that is needed for production
forecasting. So my current goal is to design model(s) which would
satisfy industry constraints and efficieently use available data.
I hope that the SchooL’s curricuLum will equip me with the tools to meet
these goals and deepen my understanding of the problem at hand.
Post-PhD, I plan to work on R&D initiatives that integrate ML into
industrial workflows, particularly in energy transition domains like
carbon capture and geothermaal systems. Alternatively, I aim to pursue
academic research focused on hybrid modeling possibly in other areas.
Thank you for considering my application!
Sincerely,
[name] [surname]
PhD Student, [compaany]
+2 *** *** ***
[email]
2