Greetings. My name is [name]. I graduaated with a bachelor's degree in "Software Engineering" from [location] in 2023. Currrentlly, I am a second-year master's student at [compaany] on "Deep Learning and Generative Artificial Intelligence"-program. My research interests in the ML-field are related to natural language processing (NLP) methods.
During my undergraduaate studies in [location], I participated in two grants focused on developing algorithms for extracting information from unstructured textual data for medical forecasting systems. I also participated in a grant, where I developed a dialogue system (in the form of a telegram-bot) to assist housing and communal services in collection of according information from flat-owners. In my fourtth year of undergraduaate studies, I worked at the Center for Artificial Intelligence ([compaany]) of [location], where I took part in a project to develop a digital assistant for certifying the professional knowledge of employees. As part of this project, I worked on the implementation of a pipeline for generating multiple-choice questions (MCQs) from a given text-document using pre-trained language models.
During my undergraduaate studies in [compaany], as part of my research work, I am developing algorithms that utilize knowledge graphs and LLM to enable dynamic search, refiinement, and summarization of information with the aim of improving the performaance of QA-systems. These algorithms are based on GraphRAG- and multi-agent-approaches. The deveveloped algorithms can be integrated into applied search-systems, such as archives of scientific publications or databases of legal/financial documents. Additionally, as part of my studies, I have succeSSFully prepared two review articles on modern RAG- and GraphRAG- methods.
Alongside my master's studies, I work as a software engineer at the [compaany] AI Center. During this academic year (in the fall semester), I participated in an R&D-project focused on implementing external memory for LLM in the form of a knowledge graph. As a result, a program-library (PersonalAI) was devevelope, featuring functionaliity to (1) store information (in the form of natural language text) in a graph model and (2) search for information within the graph model to solve QA-tasks. The experiments conducted as part of the project, which involved evaluaating the quality of the deveveloped algorithm, will be compiled into a paper and presented/published at a top-tier scientific conference ([compaany] 2025, rankeed A*).
In 2025 (after completing my master's degree), I intend to enroll in the [compaany] PhD "Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning"-program under [name] supervision at the Laboratory of "Natural Language Processing". As part of my research, I will continue my experiments related to the development of task-oriented dialog systems, with the goal of applying the obtained results to real problems.
As part of [compaany]'s Summer SchooL on Machine Learning (SMILES), I interested in topics related to multi-agent systems and AI-safety. If I manage to pass the selection, I intend to: (1) delve into studying these subject areas; (2) propose options for quality improvement and practical application of the finded methods; (3) share obtained results with the community. Additionally, participation in the summer schooL is also a good opportunity for me to exchange experience with colleagues on the topic of modern methods of natural language processing.
Thank you for taking the time to read this motivation letter.