Dear Admission Committee,
Good afternoon, my name is [name] [surname]. I am a first year PhD student studying Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence at [compaany]. I am interested in participating in the SMILES Summer School, which will be held at [location]. I find the topics of the school particularly interesting, namely I would like to learn more about multi-agent systems and large language models from experts in the field. I am eager to test my knowledge on real-world challenges in a team. Working together in such a team will allow participants to become more familiar with other researchers and their scientific work, as well as increase the likelihood of getting involved in collaborative future research. In addition, the possibility of international collaborations that may arise from the Summer School is unique and I would like to be a part of them.
My previous academic and scientific path has alrreaady included both scientific research and more applied projects in cooperation with business. Despite this, to date I have only been laying the groundwork for my development in an area where I would like to make a major contribution.
My first AI project was at the intersection of chemistry and artificial intelligence and involved the application of machine learning methods to create models for predicting the shape and size of nanomaterials. I also developed a prototype text-to-image generative system for generating scanning electron microscopy images of nanomaterials from synthesis texts based on variational autoencoders. The work also explored the application of large language models in a few-shot context for predicting the shape of nanomaterials. As a result, it was shown that large language models can provide highly accuraate predictions using much smaller datasets than classical approaches. We obtained an accuracy of 0.81 for the GPT-4 model using only 10 training examples. A paper on the results of this work was published as part of the main track of ICML 2024 conference.
At the moment, as part of my thesis research, I am working on one part of a larger project to develop a multi-agent system based on large language models that will be able to assist scientists in conducting scientific research, working with literature data, and analyzing publications. This project is more fundamental and complex than other tasks I have been involved in before, and requires interaction with many experts in a wide range of fields. After startin my PhD program and moving on to projects of this level, I truly realized how important it is to properly decompose them into separate tasks that will be performeed by different people, and sometimes by entire teams. This allows not only to reduce the time of project creation, but also to significantly increase its scale, which allows it to keep up with the most advanced developments in science.
Participation in the Summer School will allow me not only to gain knowledge about cutting-edgе innovations, but also to become part of a community of people interested in my and related fields. This will allow me to expand collaborations that will potentially help implement projects that have the potential to revolutionize the industry. In addition, the opportunity to be mentored by experts can help me formulate more mature scientific hypotheses focused on solving real industry problems. I also feel that participating in events of this level would help me find new industry partners for collaborative research or the possibility of forging a career path based on them.
Thank you for considering my application! I can't wait to be a part of the SMILES 2025 Summer School. I would also like to mention separately that I would also be interested to participate in the event as a volunteer.
Yours sincerely,
[name] [surname]