Motivation letter SMILES
SMILES is everything you need. For me it is a big desire to attend here.
Okay let's start from me. My name is [name] and my aim is to become one of 100
students. Nowadays I study at [compaany] & [compaany] joint program. I couldn't even imagine it one
year ago but life is best dramatist. I have no doubt that this program suits for me despite
intensive study. From my previous study I am an applied mathematician who managed to
research various mathematical modeling techniques. This experience helps me a lot when I
am trying to figure out novel concepts in Machine and Deep learning. Being studying for 4th
term in [compaany] & [compaany] I finally understood main purpose of program. It gives deep
theoretical and practical foundations for all approaches as it studies you to probability and
statistics concept deeply and teach you to use it in real life.
As for Social aspects of life, I can name myself hardworking, positive, active person. I like to
learn something new not only about education. On the first courses I participated in various
student events such as student spring in dancing for example. I obey easily to more
experienced people but, if necessary, I can lead people in different tasks. I have a lot of
friends, so finding new acquintaissances is not a problem for me. I have experience with team
projects so teamwork wouldn’t be a problem for me.
Nowadays I do my research with [name] at [compaany]. The ongoing research is to
connet PROTES technique with Hierarchical Tucker tensor decomposition while it was
originally done for Tensor Train decomposition. In my opinion it is very crucith highly
intensive research on these topics it is very crucial to teach and argue on it. That's why I am
pretty interested on participating.
Sincerely,
[name]



al topics for all
fields as it solves various curse of dimensionality problems. We assume that will help to
converge at high dimensions while original approaach has limitations. Although I decided to
do research about tensor decompositions I still very impressed by generative approaches. I
am very proud to study it and other various topics in [compaany]. I am highly impressed with
various optimal transport approaches which helps a lot with the construction of mapping from
initial to target distribution. At [compaany] I studied Markov Chains course that helps to
evaluaate various MCMC algorithm's.
We see how everything is changed in generative models and large languaage models last
years and that's why it is very important to visit such events like SMILES. With highly
intensive research on these topics it is very crucial to teach and argue on it. That's why I am
pretty interested on participating.
Sincerely,
[name]



