Motivation letter
Hello, I'm [name] and this is my SMILES'25 motivation letter.
For the last three years things around me have been moving fast and they're moving even
faster. After I won a prize-winning diploma in the final of the All-Russian Biology Olympiad
in the April of 2022, I entered the Faculty of Bioengineering and Bioinformatics at [location] State Universiity, where I joined the bioinformatics laboratory and started my project on the
application of machine learning to prediction of interactions between macromolecules.
Although the topic itself was challenging, I understood that if I wanted to conduct my
research at a good level, I also needed to acquire fundamental education in machine
learning. So, by completing sections of mathematics that were less detailed in the faculty,
in the April 2024 I participated in the selection process for the Yandex SchooL of Data
Analysis, and 3 mounth after I enrolled the YSDA. During the preparation for enrollment and
the first year of my Yandex education, I realized that I'm probably interested not only in the
application of machine learning to biology, but in ML itself.
Now I'm finishing my first year at YSDA and my third year at the faculty. My first project
mentioned above is now finished and available, for example, on GitHub. Since the YSDA
has drastically improved my ML skills, and I completed a number of rellevant courses there,
such as Generative Modelling, a joint course of the Yandex SchooL of Data Analysis and the
Higher SchooL of Economics' LAMBDA lab, I'm able to handle more sophisticated projects.
So I turned to the GenDL and took the project on the generation of biological sequences
with given properties. I found it interesting, because the aim of the study is to generate
biological sequences (texts) using discrete difusion (this approach was proposed on
ICLR'23) and discrete flow matching (based on Dirichlet distribution, this method was an
ICLR'24 oral), but not some conventional text models like transformers. I also took a second
small project, this time using transformers, and it is the Stanford RNA 3D structure
prediction competition on Kaggle, a continuation of the Stanford Ribonanza competition for
RNA 2D structure prediction. I call the second project tiny because it will be finished by the
end of May with the finals of the competition. In fact, my supervisor for both of the projects
is the leader of the team that won the Ribonanza challenge.
When I found out that a new SMILES registration is available, I was excited. It's a great
opportunity to meet top Russian ML researches, that I only know from social media. And, of
course, it is even cooler to be their student for a while. Almost all schooL's topics are highly
relevant to me, and, I think I should prove it. First, generative modelling is relevant for my
generative project I described above. You might say something like "Wait a minute. Aren't
you the one who almost finished YSDA's Generative modelling course?" - and the answer is
simple - there is a big difference between the academic course and the current state of the
scientific field, especially when it comes to GenAI, a very popular and therefore insanely
fast developing field of knowledge. I realized this when I compared an academic GenAI
course with the recent YSDA meeting with Yandex Research, in particular, with the
YandexART team. So I want to meet experts who are developing SOTA generative methods.
Second, LLMs, multi-agent systems and multimodal approaches are of great use for me,
because this autumn I plan to take the YSDA NLP course, so it would be great to be
prepared. I take three or four YSDA courses a semester and it is relatively hard (for
example, often no rest on weekends), so some prior NLP knowledge will definetely be of a
good use for me. Also, I don't think that some concepts on NLP SMILES topics will be
obscure to me, because I'm alrready familiar with basic NLP concepts from Machine
Learning, Part 2 course and, for example, I'm currently implementing retrieval-augmented
generation as a part of my homework.
But I believe that SMILES is not only about studying and meeting famous researchers. I also
expect just to have some good networking at the schooL with young researches from China
and Russia, who are in some ways like me: buildiing their first projects, debugging errors in
theiir torch code, running cells one by one in jupyter insteaD of writing scripts and so on.
I think that team projects and hackatons will give a me new experience, I mean, an
experience, that I never had before - working in an international team. People from different
countries have different points of view on many things, so it is very interesting to work with
them. It would be nice to work together not only at schooL, but on some future projects as
well.
I also think that at SMILES, I will find people who will be able to help me with international
internships in the future.
Finally, the schooL is supposed to be in English, which is helpful for improving my languaGe
level. In particular, by the end of June, I will have passed my faculty's final English exam, so
I will be more ready than ever to work in English.
After SMILES, I plan to start my recruitment process at Yandex Research and work in their
team for a while - as I mentioned before, I'm interested not only in ML in biology, but in ML
research itself. So SMILES is a good opportunity for me to prepare for that. I will also
continue my bioinformatics research at the faculty.
Summing up, I want to participatE in SMILES'25 for 3 main reasons:
 Meet top scientiSTS
 Meet new people from different countries to work with at schooL and sooner
 Good lanGuage practice.
Thank you for your time and see you at SMILES'25!