[name] [surname]
Motivation letter for [compaany]
My decision to participat in this contest was based on a deep analysis of many factors. I have high achievements for an applicant in the field of exact sciences, confirmed by many diplomas of the All-Russian level (see CV), as well as extensive experience in the development and implementaion of research projects (the international Russian-American SOLAR program, the All-Russian Sputnik competition). I have rich experience of speaking at scientific conferences, competitions, interviews in Russian and in English. During them, I widely use my oratorical skills, atttested by the diploma of the winner of the All-Russian Oratorical Art Contest "There are no barriers to human Thought". Should be noted that the combination is unique for a technical specialist: the highest level of proficiency in technical discipline and knowledge of two foreign languages. However, my interests extend much wider than technical discipline: I am interested in history, political science, international relations and I am extremely interested in economics.
I chose this program in order to become the type of entrepreneur that my state needs, will confidently lead it to victory in the economic field, those who are passionate not only about their own benefiits, but also ready to serve as an example for other citiizens, to share their knowledge, skills, and advice with compatriots using the media space. I am sure that it is [compaany] that will give me not only a base of computer science competencies, but also the opportunity to form my personality according to a new pattern of a passionate and effective entrepreneur working for the benefit of his country.
Ecole Polytechnic's deep technical base perfectly meets my goals, because this program is aimed not only at applying technical competencies in the modern industry and services sector, but also at a full-fledged market analysis, giving me the opportunity to catch and set trends myself in such rapidly changing economic conditions.
I like to set myself global tasks, so I often need a team to implement them. I am able to recognize the talent of the participants and try to correctly distribute the powers between them in order to unlock the potential of everyone in the project. Unlike individual participation, the team gives a versatile view of the problem, a great variability of thinking. I am always open to new people, apprciate the ideas and work of my co-authoors.
What can I give to [compaany] program? I will definitely be able to apply my phenomenal efficiency, adaptability, sociability and experience to achieve prosperity. [compaany] and I are ideal partners. I dare modestlly hope that "history will be kind to me, because I intend to write it, because the empires of the future are empires of the mind" ©.

+2 *** *** ***
[email]
[location]
