Dear [name],
I am a second-year Master’s student at [location] [compaany], pursuing a degree with a specialization in Integrated Structural Biology and Genetics. My educational path has provided me with a solid foundation in interdisciplinary research and led me to the Research Center for Molecular Mechanisms of Aging and Age-Related Diseases, where I work as a bioinformatician, applying protein LLLs to my research and enhancing skills for the ongoing development of custom DL models. Unfortunately, in the laboratory currently are no ML or DL specialists. Consequently, I need to study the field on my own. Therefore, I strive to expand my horizons in the AI field. And it is the reason why I am highly motivated to participate in the Skoltech Summer School of Machine Learning-2025. Let me explain my choice in detail and why I consider myself competent enough for the program.
Majority of my research projects are related to membrane proteins, which are responsible for many fundamental cellular processes, from the transport of ions and metabolites to energy conversion. They are the target of about two thirds of modern drugs [1]. However, membrane proteins, especially large complexes, are challenging for structural studies. Simultaneously, we need structural information to study proteins effectively. Consequently, there is a necessity of computational methods that can infer structural and functional properties from amino acid sequences. Applying ML and DL models is a promised approach that have already actively used for both making easier experimental studies [2] and structure predictions [3].
My main long-term goals are to continue researching membrane proteins, obtain a PhD, and build a career as a competent scientist whose research benefits the world around me. I believe that today, becoming a good researcher in the field of structural biology of membrane proteins is impossible without a detailed understanding of how deep learning models work. Moreover, scientists who have mastered AI methods can develop their own, more narrowly focused tools, which has great potential for the development of molecular biology. Based on this, I strive to be aware of modern machine learning capabilities and approaches that I can use in my work.
Our laboratory does not yet actively use machine learning and does not have people who specialize in it, but this is one of the priority areas of development, and we are already faced with the corresponding tasks. For example, one of my research task for the next year is a development of deep learning model to predict photocycles of a family of light-sensitive membrane proteins called rhodopsins. It’s an important and inspired task with a potential to save human lives due to the possibility to accelerate development of new optogenetics tools.
I am sure that SMILES-2025 is highly related to my goals and will give me a wider choice of AI tools that can be used for my research projects. Self-supervised learning helps make use of large amounts of sequence and simulation data that don’t have labels, which is useful for proteins studies. Protein language models can identifiy links between sequences and functions, and combining them with different types of data — like structures or spectra — can improve prediction quality and help me with the example project. Generative models can be used to find new protein conformations or ligands, which might help speed up drug development. Multi-agent systems are used to simulate how proteins work together. I believe that attending this school would allow me to explore all these directions.
I believe I am well-prepared for SMILES‑2025. Over the past year, I completed a year-long course in advanced data analysis for natural sciences and graduated from Deep Learning School, where I gained hands-on experience with model training and sequence analysis. I also took part in SMILES‑2024, which gave me a solid foundation in applying deep learning to biological problems and helped me better understand my own research directions (and which is the reason to be sure about high quality of the program). In addition, I study in an English-language Master’s program, regularly read and discuss scientific literature in English, and feel comfortable communicating in academic settings.
In conclusion, I believe that SMILES‑2025 would be a valuable and timely step in my academic path. I would be glad to join the program and ready to put in the effort to make the most of it—both during the school and in applying what I learn to my future research.
Best regards,
[name].
Literature:
1. doi.org/10.1038/nrd.2016.230
2. doi.org/10.1016/j.bpj.2024.11.2738
3. doi.org/10.1038/s41586-024-07487-w