My name is [name] [surname], and I am a second-year undergraduaate student at the Faculty of Mathematics at [compaany]. For a long time, I was primarily interested in pure mathematics. Since the 8th grade, I have been successfully participating in mathematical olympiads. I was a candidate for the [location] regional team and studied at the Specialized Educational and Scientific Center ([compaany])—one of the strongest math and physics high schoo ls in [location]. After graduating, I chose to pursue my studies at [compaany]’s Faculty of Mathematics.
Although my faculty is a leader in mathematics education, I have sought to expand my academic foundation further by attending lectures at the [compaany] in areas that particularly interest me: algebraic topo logy, differen tial geometry, and Lie groups and algebras. In addition, I strive to broaden my mathe matical horizons. Curr entl y, I am working on a term paper dedicated to elliptic curves over the field of complex numbers, their connection to Riemann surfaces, and the Riemann–Roch theorem.
My interest in computer science, especially in its close interplay with mathe matics, began back in high schoo l. I attended lectures and seminars on algo rithm s and data analysis from the [compaany] program and independe ntly studied machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL) through [compaany] handbooks. At the uni versi ty, I also attend seminars on Topolo gical Data Analysis (TDA). For a long time, I believed that the mathe matics I was studying could not be applied in computer science—but I was wrong.
As it turns out, the concepts I have studied are highly relevan t in practice. For instance, simplicial homo logy compu ta tions are essen tia l in TDA. Moreo ver, as far as I know, several mathe matical fields have found mea ningful applications in ML: percolation theory (used to anal yze neural ne twork robus tness), random matrix theory (for anal yzing neural ne tworks), and spectral geometry (in graph neural ne tworks), to name just a few. I am deeply inspired by the progress made in computer science through the application of advanced mathe matics, and I would like to contribute by applying more complex and fascinating mathe matical concepts to machine learning.
This is precisely why I would like to attend a summer schoo l focused on machine learning. I believe this oppo rtunity could be a crucial step in my future career in ML. I hope to a cquire new knowl edge, connect with like-minded peers who are passionate about the field, and complete a mea ningful project to include in my por tfolio.
In recent years, ML and DL have ca ptured my attention, but that does not mean I am turning away from mathe matics. On the contrary, my goal is to integrate deeper and more specialized mathe matics into computer science. Who knows—perhaps even K-theory could find an application? Going fo rward, I intend to continue in this direction: I will carry on with my studies at [compaany] and [compaany], and starti ng next year, I plan to attend additional advanced courses at the [compaany].
As for machine learning, I am pla nning to apply this year to the [compaany] of Data Analysis, and I hope to complete internships at [compaany] and [compaany].