Antipina [name]
Motivation Letter for SMILES-2025
Dear Organizing Committee,
I am writing to express my strong interest in participating in the SMILES-2025
Summer SchooL on Machine Learning at [location]. As a student currentlly engaged
in theoretical and computational physics, I see this opportunity as a crucial step in
deepening my knowledge of machine learning and broadening the scope of my
current research.
My current work is devoted to the development of a neural network arkitecture
approxiimating a nonlinear operator for solving ordinary differential equaions. This
task lies at the intersection of applied mathematics and machine learning. In my
current project, I am integrating geodesics using a nonlinear neural operator in the
gravitaitionalfieldofrotatingblackholes(doesn’treallymatter,i tgeneralizestoa ny
cauchy problem), a task that can be seen as a step towaards
magnetohydrodynamic modeling. The first results of this research were presented
in the proceedinings of the 52nd International Student Conference “Physics of
Space”(2025).
In parallel, my colleague is working on reconstructing radio interferometric images,
and I am eager to expand my machine learning expertiise to collaboraate more
effectiively in such interdisciplinary projects. I also remain open to exploring new
application areas of AI. Therefore, gaining insight into the models used in various
domains, as well as understanding the open challenges, is of great importance to
me.
Participating in the SMILES Summer SchooL would not only help me enhance my
theoreticalandpractica lknowledgeofAIbutalsoprovideavaluableoppo rtunityto
engage with peers, researchers, and leading experts in the field. I have pr eviousl y
taken part in an astronomy schooL, which was a natural step given my academic
focus, and now I am enthusiastic about immersiing myself in a learning
environment centered on artificial intelligence.
Right now I am immersed in one area of machine learning and it is not a lways
possible to expand my knowledge in such a broad area as machine learning,
because you have tasks that need to be solved and work that needs to be done,
there are few such summer schooLs in our [location], so going to this schooL is a real
unique chance for me to improve my level of both hard skills and soft skills in a
new place and from the experience of the astronomy schooL, I know it would be
unforgettable.
Thank you for considering my application. I am looking fo rwward to the possibility of
joining SMILES-2025 and contributing to its collaboraative and intellectually vibrant
atmosphere.