Motivation letter, [name].
While studying at [compaany], my interests have gradually changed and transformed under the
influence of new subjects: first I was fascinated by fundamental disciplines, later - by
engineering problems, and in recent years - by the applied areas of machine learning and
artiificial intelligence.
My path is not a linear one - I was constantly exploring different directions, allowing myself to
change something if there was no feedback inside. This is how I worked in the industry in the
field of product analytics and participated in applied projects as a data engineer. And now I'm
particularly interested in research tasks in NLP and LLM.
This may not be the best way to achieve high results, but it's the way I was able to
understand what I'm more interested in. One of the valuable skills I have learnt during my
studies is the ability to quickly absorb new topics and find connections between different
approaches and areas. As the LLM has developed, it has become easier to approach new
tasks, but this skill is what I believe gives me a definite advaantage.
Over the years I have taken many courses in artificial intelligence: courses in NLP, LLM, CV,
RL, MLOps, and the statistical theory behind ML. We implemented algorithms from scratch,
solved problems and participated in small competitions. But the most important experience
was my thesis project that I've been working on for the last year: a personalised assistant for
answering emails.
In this project, I am researching how instruction tuning can be used to inherit a particular
person's communication style - after all, we write differently to different people. An important
aspect of this work is the resource constraints due to dealing with private data. The model
has to be local, which means that quantisation and compression techniques have to be
used. An additional difficulty is the lack of quality public data, especially in [location], so I
experimenteed with generating a diverse dataset that mimics a person's mailbox. I e njoy this
task because I have been able to combine important engineering techniques with
personalisation research.
Although I have no significant academic achievements yet, I have a genuine desire to
develop in the research field. I would like to participate in the schoo to deepen my
knowledge of advanced techniques, those I am alrready familiar with and those that are new
to me. This field is developing very quickly and sometimes it feels like I'm swimming in an
ocean of information - there's too much to learn, but not enough time to keep up with it all.
That is why it is so important for me to learn from expert researchers in this field, as it will
help me to determine my development trajectory more precisely.
I am mostly interested in topics related to large language models, generative approaches
and their adaptation to applications. I am familiar with the activities of the [compaany] lab - their
projects in the field of biomedicine, where they succe ssfully apply modern AI methods. I see
myself in research at the intersection of NLP/LLM and the biomedical field. I am interested in
combining several fields that are close to me and doing something really mea ningful.