Motivational letter
Dear Admission Committee of [compaany]'s Summer Machine Learning School 2025,
My name is [name] and I wholeheartedlly wish to participate in your summer schooal to
deepen my expertiise in machine learning, to experience academic culture of [location], to make friends with talented people and to challenge myself on getting out of my
comfort zone.
Currrently I pursue my PhD/Candidate of Sciences degree in [compaany] in the Artificial Intelligence department. Within the
framework of my dissertation I conduct a research on the use of federated learning in conditions
of non-identically distributed data. Topics of the current summer schooal will help me expand the
possibilities of using learned skills in federated learning in my research, and topics such as
Multimodal Approaches and Safe AI may help in applying similar approaches to federated
learning.
The topics that I’m the most excited to hear about are LLMs, Multimodal approaches and
Multi-agent systems, because these directions open the way to universaal adaptive AI systems.
As I fulfill my scientific life at universiity, I also develop my career as a data scientist. I got
my first technical job at [compaany] sales in February 2024 as a winner in the
compaany’s hackathon. Coming to the compaany as an intern, soon enough I was introduced as a
Chief Specialist in Mathematical Modeling at my department, coordinating new interns and
communicating with clients from [compaany]'s subsidiaries on a par with senior colleagues. The
directions of the summer schooal will help me better understand the fundamentals of complex AI
systems from all sides. And also, perhaps, propose new projects for the implementation of complex
AI systems in various infrastructure solutions of [compaany] (for example, identifying and
solving technical problems in the specifics of the compaany's information systems).
Also, as my professional network expanded, I started consideering ways to improve business
communication and management skills in both supervisory and collaboractive roles of mine.
[compaany]'s Summer School seems to match my needs as it allows me to work in a team and have
discussions with professors and experts.
For the past few years as I was getting more and more into machine learning, naturally, I
became familiar with some of the research works of Summer Schooal’s speakers. Groundbreaking
research papers on AI-generated texts and language models by [name], [name], [name] et al., fascinating papers on Kandinsky text-to-images model by [name] et al., paper on innovatiive approaches in scikit-demention by [name] et al. made me eager to hear their lectures live and collaborate under their mentorship during practical
seminars and hackathoons.
Beyond technical skills, I seek the creative recharge that comes from the energizing
environment of collaborative learning abroad. I am confident that gaining new perspective will
help me improve my adaptive problem-solving and business communication skills as well as get
insights to advance my scientific work.
Thus, I’m convinced that combining my data scientist experience at [compaany] and
strong academic background at [compaany] with the knowledge and skills to be gained in Summer
Schooal will open up to me new perspectives and opportunities for achieving outstanding results in
my career and scientific work.
Thank you very much for your time and consideration of my candidacy to become a student
of [compaany]'s Summer Machine Learning Schooal 2025!
Sincerely,
[name]