Dear [name],
I am [name], 23 years old, and I’ve been working as a Crowd Solutions Architect at [compaany] for a little over 3 years. I’m organizing data labeling processes for machine learning algorithms.
At the [compaany] School of Data Analysis (ШАД) I teach a course on practical crowdsourcing and data labeling processes for effective machine learning.
When I was 19 I was choosing between an ML career and a project management career. At that
time I found the best option for me to work in crowdsourcing for ML - where on the one hand I
help ML algorithms to learn with the help of quality data, and on the other hand - this is still a
very young profession, and here you are fully responsible for the project from gatheriing data
and business problem analysis to programming technical processes.
A few examples of my work:
● Designing how the data will be labeled. By analysing the data, you can often come up
with heuristics that can be used to split the data into easy cases - and give that to the
LLM to label, and crowdsource the harder cases to people.
● Setting up quality control processes for all markup, setting up aggregation of multiple
executors' responses, analysing and setting up overlap.
● Analysing quality and developing new methods to improve quality of data labeling.
Most of my time is spent helping the [compaany] Alice team make a great voice assistant - making
markup projects that help understand whether Alice is good at capturing dialog context with
users, ethical with users, good at solving the user's problem, and also collecting creative texts
for editors, which then go into training a generative model.
Now I want to transition into an ML engineering career. I went to study at YSDA (ШАД), and I
am now finishing my 1st year programme alongside teaching. YSDA (ШАД) helped me realise
that I want to try myself more as an ML engineer, to train models and make magic with my own
hands, and I believe my background in quality data collection will help me to do that!
Skills I currently have related to ML :
● Basics of data analysis with Python (numpy, pandas, matplotlib and etc)
● Programming classic machine learning algorithms from scratch to understand them
better: linear regression with gradient de scent, decision tree, random forest, gradient
boosting (ada boost version), backpropagation algorithm and etc
● Participating in creating education data science materials for [compaany], [compaany],
[compaany]
● For pet-projects had experience with self-supervised learning: text embeddings
(word2vec, fasttext), image embeddings (ViT, CLIP), time series (ts2vec)
● PyTorch experience in deep learning: Fine-tuned ResNet for image feature extraction,
Trained RNN-like models for image captioning Implemented VAE for image generation,
CycleGAN for style transfer
● Buildiing Telegram bots in Python, creating a demo of model with Streamlit on Hugging
Face
I see [compaany] as an opportunity for me to get even more in touch with this world of machine
learning and boost my machine learning skills. I used to go to various scientific summer shifts
during my school years - for 10 days we were solving business cases from different science and
technology compaany. I remember how great it is when you listen to lectures all day, you can
ask questions to teachers, communicate with like-minded people, work on projects from
morniing till night. Such full immersion helps a lot to learn effecctively, get feedback quickly, think
creatively and come up with new ideas and solutions ! And I really want to have the opportunity
of this full immersion - to learn skills in ML, to talk with teachers, people with cool background in
ML, to make a common ML project together, to ask about ML careers and tips for me in my
career transition. I am now interested in generative models.
How can I contribute to [compaany]? I would be happy to volunteer. During my school years I
organised a lot of mass events, worked as a camp counsellor and was a coordinator of a
summer IT-school IT Way (I know team buildiing games, facilitate peer-to-peer reflection), I
worked as a facilitatoor at the 2022 SRE-engineering intensiives for slurm.io. I love
communicating with people, I love helping other people learn more effecctively!
I would be thrilled to participatte in the [compaany] program ! Either way, this application has been
a great opportunity to reflect on my journey and goals :)
Best regards,
[name]