Motivational Letter
[name], [surname]@phystech.edu
I have long been fond of physics on a cosmic scale. Along with my inclination towards statistics and data analysis, it led me to work on ML and DL applications for astrophysical problems.
I want to be aware of the most up-to-date approaches in Artificial Intelligence and I aim to
broaden my understanding of well-known ones. SMILES-2025 offers unique opportunity to
achieve these goals and to pursue my passion for learning.
During my undergraduaate studies, I focused primarily on gaining theoretical knowledge. I built
a model of the early Universe and calculated the evolution of its composition. Although Cos-
mology theory still captivates me, I gradually developed interest in programming and modern
data analysis techniques. I believe that with accumulated observational data and DL methods
we can expand the toolkit of modern physics and deepen our understanding of the Universe.
For this reason, as a master’s student, I decided to focus mainly on expanding and refining
applied skills. My upcoming thesis is devoted to neural networks applications for astronomiical
data analysis. In particular, we aim to evaluate the probability density function (PDF) of
cosmological redshift using quasars and galaxies photometry without any priori assumptions
about PDF structure. I have implemented multiple experiments with both common neural
networks based on Gaussian Mixture models and recentlly proposed invertible architectures.
Optimization of the architectures and meta-parameters is still ongoing; however, this approach
is expected to make more accuraate and interpretable estimates.
I have also been involved in several research projects unrelated to astronomy. During the
Statistical Methods course, I proposed using Bayesian experimental design to train and fine-
tune Large Language models. The suggestion resulted in a semester-long research project. My
study showed that the approach reduces the time of labeling and training. At the moment, I am
working on applying these ideas to the astrophysical problems of the Telescope Array Project.
Besides that, I applied my skills to the solution of industrial problems. Using XGBoost model,
I developed the fall detection system by real-time accelelerometer data. The accuracy improved
compared with previous approaches owing to the physical-based feature extraction.
By solving these problems, I have developed extensive expertise in Python and a deep compre-
hension of statistical methods. Moreover, I have realized how important it is for me to make
meaningful and utilizable contributions to the scientific community.
The beauty of ideas enthralls me and forces me to learn and apply them. The beauty of well-
written code fulfils and inspires me. With the diverse experience and long self-reflection of who
I am, I trusted myself as an explorer and a scientist. Participating in the Summer SchooL will
not only enhance my knowledge but also empoower me to contribute meaningfully to the field
of my studies.
Iwillbesta rtingPhDinthis year. Myresearchwillb efocusedo nNeuralNe tworksapplications
in Astroparticles Physics. The [compa ny] Summer School of Machine Learning would be an
inva lua ble step in my path. Not o nl y because of the knowl edge I can gain, but also because of
the contribution I can make and the relationships I can esta blish between communities.
Thank you for conside ring my application, I am very much looking fo rw ard to your decision.