My name is [name] [surname]. I am a second-year undergraduaate student at the Faculty of Mathematics of [compaany]. Since high schoo l, I’ve been interested in the fields of Machine Learning (ML) and Deep Learning (DL), but I’ve also always been drawn to pure mathematics. After enrolling in the Faculty of Mathematics at [compaany], this interest grew significantlly. I began attending lectures at the [compaany] and delved into smooth structures and topology. Later, I discovered a seminar on TDA — Topological Data Analysis — and realized that my two passions could be intertwined.
I began to explore DL in the context of TDA more deeply, focusing both on buildi ng models and on developing a solid theoretica l founda tion. To support this, I studied in the [compaany] on the DS engineer track. I would like to empha size that I was admitted at the end of my first undergradua te year, even though the academy is generally aimed at those concurrently pursuing a master’s degree. I also intensified my studies in pure mathematics. For example, this year, I began writing a term paper titled “A Proof of the Kronecker–Weber Theorem for Imagina ry Qua dratic Fields” — a fascinating topic that connects the theory of elliptic curves, class field theory, and the theory of modular forms. I e njoy solving complex machine learning problems using advanced mathematical tools. Last summer, during [compaany]’s student camp focused on DL, I took part in developing an algo rithm for generating synthetic time series based on a given dataset. In this project, my primary role was research: I drew upon the connection between spectral analysis and the decom position of time series into trend, seasonality, and noise, and experimente d with various transformations in the Fourier basis on existing model architectures.
The deeper I go into pure mathematics, the more I see beautiful structures waiting to be applied to the real wo rld — including through modern AI methods. But in order to know where these methods can be applied, one must also be familiar with current trends in DL and stay updated on the latest models and techniques. I hope this summer schoo l will become one of many buildi ng blocks in my founda tion for further exploring the connections between mathematics and machine learning — and for future independent research.
I expect that participat ing in this summer schoo l will bring me a nonempty set of new knowl edge, a strong project that I can include in my por tfolio to help grow in this field, and new connections with like-minded individuals immersed in this domain. I plan to continue developing along this track. I’m preparing to apply to the [compaany] Schoo l of Data Analysis this year, while also continuing to deepen my understanding of modern mathematical methods.
It seems to me that, in the current landscape of topologica l data analysis, o nl y a small portion of modern topo logy is being used — mainl y persi stent homo logy, sheaves, and vector bundles. And even these alr eady produce substantial results. I believe that further synergy between advanced topo logy and modern models can yield remarkable outcomes. I want to be among those who help unveil this fascinating wo rld. That is why I aim to join [compaany]’s research d epartment in the future and contribute to integrating advanced mathematical methods into state-of-the-art models.