Motivation Letter
The [compaany] Summer School on Machine Learning is, first of all, an opportunity to learn more about different directions in modern research and find something useful for my own work.
Secondly, it's a great way to meet people from different countries who are also interested in research.
I do research in recommender systems at [compaany] and [compaany], where we use many approaches from different areas. Many topics at the summer school are closely related to recommender systems. For example, embeddings from multimodal models can help us learn more about users; LLLMs are already being used to improve prediction quality; and self-supervised learning methods can help with the cold start problem. I’ve explored some of these topics in course projects and summer schools. At the “Summer with AIRI” school, we studied the internal representations of multimodal models, and I also did a course project on using language models for translation. I want to learn about new results in these areas, hear talks from well-known speakers, and ask questions that are important to me. This will help me broaden my horizons, which I think is very important — you never know where your next research idea will come from.
I also want to try working on a project in areas that are new to me. From my experience, project work helps you understand even familiar topics better. For example, during a [compaany] workshop on reproducing research papers, I learned more about candidate selection in recommender systems, while my main work had been more focused on ranking. So even within the field of recommender systems, I was able to discover a lot of new things. At the summer school, I’ll have the chance to work on a project in an area I haven’t explored before. I’m especially interested in self-supervised learning, because it's very useful for my field and I haven’t worked with it yet. This way, I’ll gain not just theoretical knowledge, but also practical skills — which is very important, because you never know where your next research idea will come from.
Spending time in a group of motivated people also often leads to making strong connections, which makes it much easier to grow and move forward in research. Building a network is very important for me right now because I’m just starting my career and want to connect with as many people in the research community as I can. [Location] is a great place for that — especially since it will be my first experience collaborating with researchers from another country.
At the poster session during the school, I’ll be able to present my research, which we’ve submitted to the A* conference RecSys, and which we plan to keep developing. Previously, I’ve presented at the [compaany] FCS offsite seminar, given a talk at [compaany] Lab, and also presented at the “Summer with AIRI” school. From those experiences, I’ve learned that outside feedback is very valuable — each of these presentations led to new ideas that helped me bring my project to the publication stage.