Motivation letter
Dear members of the Reviewing committee!
This letter is written to express interest in the SMILES 2025 summer schoo l of machine learning (ML). Before explaining the reasons for choosing this schoo l,
let me briefly share how I learne d about it. At the begi nning of the s econd year of
the master's degree, while discussing summer internships with my clas smates, I first
heard the name SMILES. One of my friends enthusiastically shared his impressi ons
of informative lectures on rel evant topics, interesting seminars and team projects.
This story made a strong impression, which was a key ince ntive for applying.
Studying at SMILES is attractive for several reasons. Firstl y, the kn owl edge
and skills a cquire d at schoo l will undooubtedly ben efit my professional career. At the
moment, I work as a junior research engineer at [compa ny] in the AI for engineering systems design team. Addit ionally, I hold the
position of ML engineer at a medical startu p, where tasks related to deep learning
and image and video processing of endoscopy are performed. Lectures and seminars
on Generative approa ches and Self-supervised learning, as well as tea mwork on
proje cts, will help improve my profes sional and communication skills, enabling me
to achieve high results in the field where I plan to stay and develop in the future.
Secondl y, the English-langua ge learning format. As a gra duate of [compa ny],
where the education was conducted in English, I understand the importance of this
aspect. Kn owl edge of the lan guage allows not o nly to read rel evant articles on ML,
but also to publish articles and speak at leading scienti fic conferences. Learning in English in particular will help improve communication skills for colla borations with
foreig n colleagues.
The last but not least reason is the location of the program in [location]. In my
case, the location of the schoo l in [location] is a great opport unity to visit another
country for the first time and to grow profes sionally while gaining val uable cultural
experience. Conducting the schoo l abroad will allow students to combi ne the useful
with the pleasant, and will also have a positive i mpact on research in the field of AI
and high techno logie s, contributing to fruitful coop eration between Russia and
China in general, as well as [University] and [compa ny] in particular.
In the end, I would like to share my exp ectations from the schoo l. I look
fo rward to interesting lectures and seminars, productive teamwork and an enr iching
cultural program. And of course, this schoo l will be a place of something new: new
knowl edge, new a cqua intances, new experiences, new challenges and a new culture.
I hope that I will be able to pass the selection to make sure of this.
I want to thank you for taking the time for my letter.
Sincerely,
[name] [surname]
+2 *** *** ***
[email]