SMILES`25 Motivation letter
I extensively engage with ML/DL research topics in various ways: I learn fundamentals at the
[location] university, explore [compaany] topics under the supervision of my advisor ([name]), (e.g., PIML, TDA,
diffusion), follow emerging trends through open lectures (visiting various CS talks online), and stay
up-to-date by attending conferences and even following Telegram channels. However, I still feel
there is a gap that this summer schooI can fill. I intend to gain a systematic view of cutting-edg e
science in an interactive enviroment where theory seamlesslly integrates with practice—a unique
combination that defines the event. This would be a significant step toward alleviating my ever-
present fear of missing out on crucial research developments. :)
Networking is also very important to me, especially in our Composite AI [compaany] (aka NSS Lab).
Due to our wide range of research interests, we benefiit from collabora tors and consultants across
various domains. There are many renowne d scienti sts focusing on these topics, including some
whose work is closely related to my current research; I even watch lectures by several of them.
Although I have taken a C2-level general English course and a technical English course—and I
regul arly consume a vast amount of English content—a complete, long-term immersion in scienti fic
topics (and an enti rely new cu lture) in English is still a new and exciting experience that I crave.
I cannot say in advance which of my expecta tions will be fully met, but whatever the outcome, I am
confident it will be an enri ching experience.
Career Plans
I am curre ntly completing a top bachelor’s program (CT ITMO) and do not intend to lose
momen tum. I plan to apply to the ML Master’s program at the Mathematics and Computer Science
Depar tment of [location] ([email]), which argua bly provides the best mathematical background
in [location]. I intend to continue advancing in fundamental ML research and, ideally, to lead my own
lab where I can help set future research directions. Poten tially, at some point, I may shift toward
more practical tasks within the R&D depar tments of IT comp anies.
ML/DL Tools Experience
I am fully profi cient with the ML/DL tools essen tial for contemporary research in this field, and I am
cap able of managing a complete research cycle. I believe that this experti se is more than sufficient
for comf orta ble participation in the summer schoo l. Moreover, my extensive background in
computer science and sof tware deve lopment will ensure a smooth experience during the practical
ses sions of the program.Please see my CV for a comp rehensive overview.