Good day, dear committee,
My name is [name], and I am a 1st-year PhD student first year PhD student in the Compu(cid:415)tational and Data Science and Engineering program at [location] [compaany]. My supervisor is [name], head of the [compaany] [location] Biomedically-Informed Artificial Intelligence Labo(cid:415)ratory.
Attending the Summer School will allow me to present my research to my peers in person and receive qualified feedback to help me move forward. This is extremely important for me, as in the first year of a PhD, there is a lack of certainty about the exact direction of the thesis. On the other hand, I hope to hear ideas from other participants and do my best to help them as well. I will be very grateful to collaborate with researchers from other institutes and maybe together we will be able to make our work stronger.
During my master's thesis at [location], under the supervision of [name], I demonstrated that EEG embeddings from pre-trained beta-VAE on a large (>100000 patients) open-source dataset with recordings only from healthy people give SOTA performance in classifying Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) with only linear probing. The method leads to a reduction in computational cost compared to full neural network training (which also tends to overfit) and improved performance compared to classical machine learning methods. The task of MDD classification was chosen as a good illustration of the method, since the largest MDD datasets currently contain recordings from no more than 200 patients. Moreover, in clinical practice, the diagnosis of MDD relies on self-reported symptoms and interviews with a psychiatrist, but even experienced psychiatrists can disagree on diagnoses in up to 30% of cases. At the same time, deep learning techniques have shown significant potential in classifying MDD using EEG data, suggesting their integration into clinical practice.
Currently, my research interests have shifted to synthetic data generation and imputation methods that aim to improve classification, segmentation and regression models in downstream tasks. This problem is particularly pronounced for clinical datasets, which are not so large compared to other domains such as speech and images, so to get better results researchers try to combine different types of data. However, due to difficulties and obstacles in the data collection process, clinical multimodal datasets inevitably contain missing values, so there is a rapidly developing field of different imputation methods.
In the paper "impuTMAE: Multimodal Transformer with Masked Pre-training for Missing Modalities Imputation in Cancer Survival Prediction" submitted by me and my colleagues to the Medical Image Computing and Computer Assisted Intervention (MICCAI 2025) conference, we proposed a novel multimodal transformer-based method to address data scarcity issues. The method is based on the combination of work from DRIM, ViTMAE and FLAVA and conceptually consists of the following steps:
1. Pre-training of unimodal encoders-decoders with MIM loss;
2. Pre-training of multimodal encoder-decoder with MIM loss;
3. Missing data imputation via encoder-decoder inference;
4. Fine tuning of the encoder on the downstream task.
Thus, our main contributions are
- Introduction of an end-to-end unified multimodal approach that can be fine-tuned for downstream tasks and used to impute missing modalities.
- Application of a novel ViT-MAE-based pre-training strategy tailored for multimodal data with a high proportion of missing modalities.
- Our approach, which is more universal in its integration of multiple modalities and robust to missing data, achieves state-of-the-art performance on the task of glioma survival analysis.
The task of predicting survival in patients with glioma and glioblastoma (types of brain cancer) was chosen as an illustration due to the availability of open source multimodal datasets for this task: RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), DNA methylation (DNAm) and histopathological slides (WSI) were taken from the TCGA-GBM and TCGA-LGG datasets, and MRI data were supplemented from the BraTS dataset.
Our experiments showed significant performance improvements in predicting patient survival, both by pre-training and by incorporating synthetic data imputation. One reason for the observed effect is the scarcity of the dataset - all four modalities are available for only 165 out of 1104 patients. My personal contributions are the generation of research ideas, experiments on pre-training and optimization of the MRI part of the model, and re-implementation of all baselines.
Another project I’m involved in and practical application of data imputation is cancer risk prediction using electronic health records (EHR) data. By identifying high-risk groups within the national population, healthcare resources can be allocated more efficiently, ensuring that those in need receive timely medical attention. However, nationwide datasets tend to be biased because medical tests are mostly performed on people who are already sick. In such cases, traditional methods such as 'mean' imputation may be suboptimal. Instead, generative approaches that can handle non-random missingness can significantly improve model performance. Currently, as a research engineer, I am actively involved in two collaborative projects between BIOMED-Lab and the N.N. Blokhin National Medical Research Centre of Oncology - one focused on cancer risk prediction and the other on cancer recurrence prediction using EHR data in tabular format. Current methods of cancer treatment are only effective in the early stages, so it's very important to detect the disease as early as possible.
I hope that participating in SMILES will enrich my understanding of the fundamentals of machine learning and show me new sides and hot topics to explore. In particular, multimodal systems are a topic of great interest at the moment, and I would like to explore this in more detail during the summer school workshops and by working on projects. It would also be exciting to find colleagues in neighboring fields and discuss their research topics in this area.
In the next few years, I hope to write and defend my PhD thesis. I'll also be continuing my research into the development of deep learning applications in medicine as a research engineer in the Biomedical informed AI Lab.
Thank you for considering my application.
Best regards,
[name]