Motivational Letter for SMILES-2025
[name] [surname]
Dear SMILES-2025 Selection Committee,
My name is [name] [surname] and I am writing this motivational letter to show my deep desire to participate in the summer school of machine learning (SMILES-2025) you are organizing. In addition, I will tell you about myself, my experience in data analysis and my future plans and what role your summer school plays in them.
Now I am finishing my 3rd year at [compaany], studying Applied Mathematics and Computer Science with a specialization in Data Analysis in Economics in cooperation with [compaany]. This semester, thanks to the institute, I am interning at [compaany] - a small quant fund. I am getting experience with machine learning models in finance. I'm working with a factor model for predicting one-day returns, it determines the main factor of all instruments and then predicts residual returns using linear regression. On something similar to this model, FactorGML, but with a deeper architecture I do an overview in my review for your school. My tasks include data preprocessing, hyperparameter selection, feature engineering, and model training.
This is not my first experience with machine learning. First, in the spring semester of my 2nd year, I took the Introduction to Data Analysis course with special diligence, where I did practical homework every week, the grade for both parts of the course was 10. After that, I was selected for the summer school of data analysis at IITP RAS in July, 2024. There, active scientists taught mini-courses. I liked the basics of mat. statistics by [name] and optimization methods by [name]. This influenced my preferences, and as an internship at IITP RAS I was choosing between two good scientists. The choice fell in the direction of [name] and the Laboratory of Mathematical Foundations of Machine Learning in IITP RAS, because I was interested that his project has a clear application in the banking sector.
We worked in a team headed by [name] for several months, I managed to achieve significant development of the project. I will briefly describe our work. The task was to improve the credit scoring of users by including pictures in the review by adding a second step in training. We used federated learning mechanisms. The challenges we faced were the lack of datasets with pictures from the gallery of real users and the need to consider the size of the model for the pictures, since by design this part should work on the user's phone. We coped in the following way, datasets were generated using generative models, and trained a classifier to determine one of the three categories of user's wealth. We came up with this solution - a large trained encoder (Vit, Mobile-Vit) takes pictures as input, produces embeddings, which we feed to the input of the final classifier, boosting on decision trees (CatBoost). Accordingly, my role in this project was at the stage of model building, selection of different architectures, data preprocessing and training itself. My tasks included setting up the entire model pipeline, sample sizing, preprocessing, model selection, hyperparameter selection, graphing and training. I managed to improve the model from F1 score of 0.38, undertraining, to 0.86, significant training.
It was a valuable experience for me, showing that even a short summer school can teach you a lot, and most importantly, it allowed me to try doing data science myself, which I enjoyed and was the driver for applying to SMILES. Your summer school will allow me to achieve what I want - to effectively touch the frontier of data science in a short period of time, and make my own contribution to it. You don't always get such opportunities at university during your studies - more often it's about fundamental knowledge that will be useful in the future. Participation in scientific activities also requires a lot of attention, which is not always possible during studies. Therefore, summer time is the best time for me to do science.
In the future, I would primarily like to pursue a Master's degree. My interests sound most precisely as follows - application of statistical methods and machine learning in finance. That's why at one time I wanted to enroll in a master's program at [compaany] together with [compaany] - it's both deep finance and serious ML/DL. Lately, however, I've been leaning more towards [compaany]. I like the fact that all the teaching is in English, it is important for me to be part of the international community, because in my opinion it is the only way to do breakthrough research in science, because knowledge sharing is an important part of creating something new. This is another reason that SMILES will give me an international experience at a Chinese University. China is overtaking many countries in the quantity and quality of scientific publications. Being part of this dynamic environment is essential for my academic and professional growth.
On any path, a mentor is always important. And if we are talking about the path in science, then here the scientific supervisor is extremely important. This is the person who will prompt, guide, give advice and, most importantly, share expertise and feedback. It is important for me to get invaluable mentoring experience from great scientists, both from Russia and China. Also, I will be able to actively get acquainted with other participants of the school, adopt their experience, build up contacts. This will be the foundation for my future scientific career.
Thank you for the opportunity to review my application for the SMILES.
With appreciation,
[name] [surname]