[name]
[location]
18.04.2025
Dear Members of Organizing Committee,
I am writing to apply for the SMILES summer schoo]. My name is [name] and I am
passionate about deep learning and mathematics. I believe SMILES schoo] is a perfect opportunity for me
to develop my skills and deepen my knowledge.
I am currentlly receiving bachelor’s degree in “Applied Mathematics and Infoormatics” at [location] Universiity.
During my studies, I became interested in deep learning and have chosen a specialization in Machine
Learning and Applications. As a part of my specialization, I have taken advanced courses in deep learning
and completed several projects that have provided me with practical programming experience.
Concerning my hard skills, I am experienced in Python and Pytorch, I have implemented and trained
various types of neural networks from diffusion to speech recognition models during my studies. I admire
recent developments in deep learning and I am going to continue studying DL in my master's degree.
I started doing research under the supervision of [name] during my 2nd year and continue
working on applications of linear algebra to deep learning as an intern in laboratory of “Matrix and
Tensor Methods in Machine Learning”. I have gained a strong foundation in mathematics through courses
in linear algebra, statistics and optimization and I am thrilled to see how beautiful mathematical ideas
arise in applications to neural networks. For example, during my 3d year, I worked on coursework on
convolutional networks and took a course on tensor computaions. Unexpectedlly, spectral norm of kernel
tensor, which we discussed in class, turned out to be a new accurate upper bound for the spectral norm of
convolution up to a constant factor. This finding was exciting for me. I proved inequalities and ran
experiments for our paper “Tight and Efficient Bound on Spectral Norm of convolutional layers”, which
was accepteed to ECCV 2024. This experience strengthened my desire to pursue a career in deep learning
and contribute to advancing its mathematical foundations. At present, I am working on a method for
compressing LLMs using matrix factorizations and orthogonal transformations, for which I have
implemented an iterative algorithm and conducted experiments with models. We hope to publish our
results soon. I think there is still much potential for research in DL and I want to continue working on
projects at the junction of mathematics and DL.
I took part in SMILES-2024 last summer in online format and it was a really great experience for me! I
really enjoyed the lectures because they introduced me to new methods in DL and provided a deep
immersion into the theory, underlying the methods, which is very valuable to me. I am eager to take part
in SMILES-2025 in offline, because the offline format gives more opportunities to get immersed into
studies and get to know talented participants and experienced scientists.
In the long term, I aim to work as a research scientist in academia or industry, developing novel methods
that address real-world challenges. I believe that SMILES schoo] will help me to expand my knowledge
of the modern methods in DL and enhance my skills.
Thank you for considering my application!
Sincerely,
[name]