“Antibody-Inspired Aptamer Generation”
[name]
1st year Master’s student, [compaany]
Introduction
Antibodies are immunoglobulins that specifically bind to an antigen.
Antibodies are used in diagnosis and therapy (diagnostics of cancer, pneumonia, hepatitis, HIV, infertility, therapy of rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, Crohn's disease and many others).
Aptamer
Despite the widespread use of antibodies, there are a number of disadvantages. For these reasons, alternative solutions began to appear. And one of these alternatives is aptamers
Aptamers are synthetic single-stranded DNA or RNA molecules capable of binding specifically to a variety of target molecules.
The purpose is to create a model that takes information about an antibody at the input, such as its amino acid sequence, and information about a target molecule, and outputs the nucleotide sequence of an aptamer at the output.
22
Antibody
- Aptamers have several advantages over antibodies as molecular probes for clinical diagnostics, including superior specificity, reproducibility, and stability.
- Despite the advantages of aptamers, their adoption in clinical diagnostics has been slow, likely due to a widespread use of antibodies and significant financial investments in antibody development
Aptamer
Antibodies Aptamers
Production method In vivo, cell culture Chemical Synthesis, SELEX
Storage conditions At subzero temperatures At room temperature
Production price and time antibodies requires prolonged and expensive in vivo procedures production
Can bind certain epitopes that antibodies cannot bind (toxic substances)
Lower immune response 33
Antibody
Design and Prediction of Aptamers Assisted by In Silico Methods
New in silico methods open up new possibilities in the field of aptamer development.
Deep learning and machine learning techniques are being applied for prediction of aptamer-target interactions and for predicting the 2d and 3d structures of aptamers.
Secondary structure:
CentroidFold, RNAstructure, Vfold2d
Tertiary structure:
RNAComposer, 3dRNA, Vfold3D, and SimRNA
4
AptaNet as a deep learning approach for aptamer–protein interaction prediction
AptaNet, a deep learning model, achieved high performance in predicting aptamer-protein interactions on a benchmark dataset.
Aptamers were encoded by using two different strategies, including k-mer and reverse complement k-mer frequency.
The amino acid composition and pseudo-amino acid composition were employed to encode the protein sequences
5
stages of work
Data cleaning Encoder and Validation: filters and predictive models, augmentation training experiment
Generation of an aptamer for a given protein
Data collection from protein and aptamer databases
Embedding
Calculation
8
Methods
• Approach: Name the ML techniques/algorithms used.
• Why these methods? Briefly justify your choices.
• How it works (simply): Give a 1–2 line intuition.
• Data & preprocessing: Mention key steps like cleaning data, feature extraction, or splitting into train/test sets.
Databases
12
9
Search for matches by target names
Save if:
Using the script, we get the Uniprot ID for the target from the antibody and apta
the first matches
Uniprot ID 70% of the matches UniprotID
10
Triplets are intersections that are necessary for training the model
Number of intersections: 16693
11
Proposed architecture
Antibody sequence
IgBert/IgT5/
antibody
Antiberty μ
embedding
5'GGAGGCCCUCCUCCCAGU3'
σ
target
Protbert
The apta
embedding
sequence
The target sequence
target
embedding
trebanr
Prospects for scaling up the project
Testing more complex architectures
Extending the approach to other types of proteins
Adding data on the structure of molecules
13
Bibliography
https://doi.org/10.3390/molecules24234377
1.
2.
DOI:10.3390/biomedicines11020356
DOI https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-79682-4
3.
DOI https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-85629-0
4.
DOI https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-79682-4
5.