Mobile Robotic Platform Using Automatic Navigation Systems
[name]
Laboratory Assistant, Robotics Laboratory
of the [location] [university]
Introduction
• A mobile robotic platform using automatic navigation systems is a mobile robot needed to
transport something, such as a load or a robotic arm, which can move both with the help of
an operator and a remote control, and autonomously.
• This is important because human labor to carry something is not always reasonable, and
sometimes too difficult and expensive. A mobile robotic platform allows you to simplify the
transportation of goods or make any other device mobile.
• Goal of the review is to show that such a simple device is actually in demand.
Problem statement
• Increase the capacity of industrial and hobby robotic arms to operate without adding a conveyor
• Challenges:
1. To make the most convenient platform for operators to use
2. Make autonomous movement possible
3. High load capacity
Methods
• Approach: Classical Teaching with a Teacher
• We have chosen this method because it has the following advantages:
1. Prognostic ability. Supervised learning models use data where the correct answers are
already known to make accurate predictions and identify patterns.
2. Understandability and interpretability of the results. Some algorithms allow you to
understand why the model makes a particular prediction. This is important in areas such as medicine
and finance, where decisions must be transparent and explainable.
3. Versatility of application. Supervised algorithms are used in a wide range of fields, from
medicine and finance to entertainment and marketing. Almost anywhere there is data and the need to
predict, classify, or identify patterns, supervised learning is successful.
4. Ease of quality assessment. Since the correct answers are already known, you can easily
assess the accuracy of the model and quickly improve it.
• How it works (simply): The model looks for patterns between the readings of navigation sensors
and the choice of type and trajectory of movement. Once trained, the model can predict
movement types and trajectory based on sensor readings using these patterns.
Results
• Key findings: The project is still at the development and testing stage, but there are already the first
results. The main driving elements are soldered and connected, the web interface for working with the
camera and controlling the robot is also already yielding results, the work with the sensors is still at the
calibration stage.