Generative app approaches to improving digital terrain models based on aerial photography data using unmanned aerial systems
[name]
[location]
State Technological University named V.G. Shukhov [location]
Field of application
Improvement of quality and reliability of information of cartographic basis of economic activity is an important task in most industries. In recent years, the photogrammetric method has become more widespread due to the active development of the unmanned aerial vehicles field.
Terrain images
Orthophoto
Digital model
The main advantage is the possibility of obtaining high quality aerial images at high speed. There are also disadvantages: poor quality images can reduce the final accuracy of the cartographic material.
Relevance and motivation
•
Engineering surveys in 2024 are characterized by active implementation of digital and smart technologies, stricter requirements for risk and environmental impact assessment;
•
Engineering-geodetic surveys are the basis for the entire construction production, as they provide the industry with topographic materials;
The main hypothesis of the study is: eliminating distortions on aerial images and increasing their resolution will improve the quality of the final cartographic products.
Problem statement
To eliminate blurring, noise and artifacts, the application of generative adversarial network algorithms and visual transformer (SwinIR) is investigated, including SR models can improve the spatial resolution of digital terrain models [1].
Receipt of AFI
Increasing the spatial resolution
Eliminating distortions
Obtaining cartographic material
Image processing
Obtaining cartographic material
1.Zheng, Xin & Xu, Zhaoqi & Yin, Qian & Bao, Zelun & Chen, Zhirui & Wang, Sizhu. (2024). A Transformer-UneT Generative Adversarial Network for the Super-Resolution Reconstruction of DEMs. RemoteSensing.16.3676.10.3390/rs16193676.
Methods and materials
Architectures of the models under study
Different generative model architectures are used to enhance aerial images: Real-ESRGAN, visual transformer architecture (SwinIR) and diffusion model SRDiff.
Haoying Li, Yifan Yang, Meng Chang, Shiqi Chen, Liang, J., Cao, J., Sun, G., Zhang, Xintao Wang, Liangbin Xie, Chao Dong, & Huajun Feng, Zhihai Xu, Qi Li, & Yueting Chen K., Van Gooel, L., & Timofte, R. Ying Shan (2021). Real-ESRGAN: Training for Real-World Blind Super-Resolution with Swin Transformer. arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.10257.
Methods and materials
Evaluated metrics
Image evaluation, to determine the structural quality of the images and their similarity to the terrain model obtained from measurements of original aerial images processed aerial images
Mean square error of line lengths between control points
m = Σ (s - s)2
i
m = Σ (h - h)2
h
n - 1
n - 1
Reference values of line lengths and exceedances between control points were calculated from differential satellite measurements.
Methods and materials
Aerial photography data for testing
The study was based on aerial photography using Geoscan Gemini unmanned aerial vehicle, Sony UMC-R10C camera with 20mm lens. Processing of aerial photography results was performed in Agisoft Metashape Professional software. The 354 aerial images obtained during complex cadastral works were used as the source data.
Results
Visual assessment of the images showed that with increasing image resolution the characteristic points of terrain objects are detailed and the overall informativeness of the image is increased.
This result improves accuracy and productivity in survey interpretation
Results
BRISQUE Metric
Source images Real-ESRGAN images SwinIR images
According to the BRISQUE metric, we can say that when the original images were processed by SwinIR visual transformer, the average image quality improved significantly, while the result of Real-ESRGAN processing was worse than the original images.
Results
SSIM Metric
Real-ESRGAN images SwinIR images
The distribution of SSIM values shows high similarity with the original images. However, two peaks are clearly visible on the plots, which indicate a violation of structural properties of the generated images. This may be due to different underlying terrain surfaces on which the generation algorithm was not trained.
Results
PSNR Metric
Real-ESRGAN images SwinIR images
According to the PSNR metric, the best result is obtained for Real-ESRGAN, but two peaks are observed, maybe also related to different underlying terrain surfaces on which the generation algorithm was not trained.
Results
LPIPS Metric
Real-ESRGAN images SwinIR images
In terms of human perception, Real-ESRGAN generates more similar terrain images.
Results
The study reveals that Real-ESRGAN aerial image processing increases the number of connecting points when building orthophotos and digital terrain model, and improves their reliability. SwinIR, despite the best performance in image evaluation metrics, showed the worst results, even compared to the original images
Source images Real-ESRGAN images SwinIR images
Increasing the number of tie points and improving their reliability allows for more accurate construction of digital terrain models
Results
Estimation of MSE errors of line lengths and elevations between control points, performed after processing the acquired images in Agisoft Metashape, showed an increase in accuracy of plan and elevation positions of control points on orthophoto and digital terrain model (for Real-ESRGAN images).
MSE of mutual location of control points in plan MSE of height marks of control points
0.040 m 0.152 m 0.039 m 0.150 m
0.039 m 0.150 m 0.038 m 0.148 m
0.037 m 0.146 m 0.036 m 0.144 m
0.035 m 0.142 m 0.033 m 0.141 m
0.034 m 0.140 m 0.032 m 0.138 m
0.033 m 0.136 m 0.031 m 0.134 m
Исхoдныe images СнSиRм-iкmиa сg уeвsеличенным разрешeнием Исхoдныe images СнSиRм-iкmиa сg уeвsеличенным разрешeнием
The achieved results confirm the possibility of significant reduction of labor intensity of real estate contours interpretation, as well as contribute to the increase of accuracy of coordinates and areas determination.
Research Perspectives
Currently, the work is underway to collect and analyze aerial images in order to create a dataset for training super-resolution models for aerial terrain imagery tasks. The dataset already includes more than 20 thousand images of terrain made with the use of unmanned aerial systems.
The distinctive feature of a dataset is the availability of images:
• taken with different cameras,
• under different shooting conditions,
• with a variety of underlying terrain and objects.
Further stages of the research include: training of the considered models on the prepared dataset their testing and analysis of the obtained results.
To be continued…