

Machine learning for
topological photonics
[name] [surname]
Photonics
Photonics is a key technology of the 21st century, based on controlling light for data transfer, signal processing,
and the development of innovative devices. One of its main advantages is high-speed data transmission with
minimal energy loss.
Despite their potential, traditional photonic devices face several critical challenges, with sensitivity to defects
being the most significant. Any defects in their structure cause light scattering, disrupting system operation,
leading to data loss and reduced performance.
high-bandwidth
(800 Gb/s)
[company], 1-8 (2025) [company] 15, 102-104 (2021)
Photonic-electronic integrated Photonics for artificial intelligence
circuit system and neuromorphic computing
2
Topological photonics
Topological photonics is a field of modern physics that offers a solution to this problem
by using principles of topology to control light.
Quantum integrated Majorana-based
On-chip integration Topological lasers
topological chip ([company])
photonics
Topological optical states are robust against defects and ensure ultra-reliable data processing 3
Is the photonic system topological?
To answer this question, we need to calculate the topological invariant
Topological invariant = 1
Topological edge states
The complex procedure for determining the topological invariant of a material,
which is necessary to identify topological states, limits their broad use.
4
Deep learning in topological photonics
We propose an innovative approach to solve this problem: developing a neural network capable of
determining the topological invariant of a photonic system through a simple, easily implementable
measurement of intensity.
5
Deep learning in topological photonics
Apply ML to solve the classification of topological phases problem based solely on a single real-space bulk
intensity image at the output facet of waveguide array.
Output intensity Topological classes
Waveguide lattice
Output
L
e
c
n
Input a
st
di
n
o
ati
g
a
p
o
r
P
6
Unsupervised methods: t-SNE
We perform the preliminary analysis of the prepared datasets using the t-SNE.
The topological classes are not clearly separable. Consequently, unsupervised methods are not applicable.
7
Deep learning methods
We conclude that classical machine learning methods show lower accuracy compared to neural networks
and support vector machine (SVM). One of the two most promising models, the MLP method, was chosen
for more thorough examination. We thoroughly analyzed the neural network's performance under
variations in photonic lattice parameters within realistic fabrication tolerances.
8
Transfer learning
We consider the performance of models trained on ideal data in
classifying data obtained from different model parameters.
We introduce perturbations into the SSH Hamiltonian coefficients
of two types: off-diagonal disorder in the inter-site coupling
strengths and on-site disorder in the propagation constants.
We specifically studied how manufacturing defects (disorder)
affect the system's accuracy (see figure). Even with realistic
disorder levels (<0.01), our method remains precise, proving its
reliability for real experimental platforms.
9
Conclusion
We have studied the performance of a variety of machine learning techniques at distinguishing different
topological phases of photonic lattices using measurements of the bulk intensity profile after a fixed
propagation distance. Our approach for classifying lattices based on incomplete measurements can be further
developed to solve a more general problem of reconstruction of the lattice Hamiltonian with some a
priori knowledge of its symmetries in various fields including photonics, condensed matter physics, and
quantum computing.
Contact: [name] [surname] ([email]@[company].[location]) 10