Creating a virtual assistant
(chaтbot) for oil companies
(I'm thinking about developing this
project now)
[name] [surname]
Specialist, [compaany]
Introduction
• According to statistics, in large companies, employees spend up to 8 hours a week searching for the
necessary information. If we take into account that the working week is 40 hours, then in fact 1 working
day is spent on "playing hide and seek" with data. The development of a chaтbot will allow people to save
time and focus on more important strategic tasks.
• It is believed that the first chaтbots appeared more than half a century ago and were used in psychiatry for
the purpose of artificial live communication (dialogue) for patients. In the next year, based on keywords,
the program "communicated", asked questions, relying on its given scenes of scenario attacks. Years go
by, and the capabilities of chaтbots have expanded significantly, while maintaining their basic original task
- communication with the user and provide the necessary information.
Problem statement
• The goal of the project is to create a chaтbot for the purposes of large oil and gas companies.
• During the project implementaion, a virtual assistant for oil and gas companies will be designed and
programmed, which will optimize work with large amounts of data. Foreign companies are gradually
introducing artificial intelligence to solve certain problems.
Methods
• 1) Creating a technical specification with a detailed description of the project for creating achaтbot (product
characteristics and capabilities, requirements for the result,critical assessments of the product quality).
• 2) Preparing data for uploading. Collecting and structuring materials forbot training.
• 3) Analyzing the current approach to writing a chaтbot. Selecting an enviroment forprogramming.
• 4) Creating a demo version of the chaтbot. Description of the testing report (use of different types of
testing).
Results
• The goal of this project is to create a chaтbot for oil companies, a communication program that
communicates with the user according to a given scenario, a way to obtain information and optimize
work.
Research gap
Today, there is an increased interest in new technologies. There are many works devoted to studying the
possibilities of artificialintelligence, but there are fewer practically implemented ideas. The first chaтbots
were conceived of communicating with patients at a psychiatric appoinmtent. Communication with the
user is the key function of chaтbots. Technologies based on artificial intelligence are being introduced into
the work of large enterprize corporations.