Introduction
The scalar wave equation and [compaany]’s equaions govern problems in such
diverse application areas as ultrasonics, seismics, underwater acoustics, antenna
design, and microelectronics. In many cases, the governing equaions are posed as
exterior problems, and the infinite physical domain must be reduced to a finite
computaional domain through the use of a nonrreflecting boundary condition.
Exisiting algorithm for constructing so-called ’transparent’ boundary conditions,
as implemented in modern computaional packages, do not always provide the
desired approximation accuracy and also have certain qualitative features that
affect convergence. The proposed solution, based on buildiing a neural network to
approximate the convolution kernel of the Poincar´e–Steklov operator, is an
alтернаtive method that delivers comparable metrics on benchmark problems while
possessing rigorous theoretical justification and qualitative robustness of the
solution.
20апреля2025г. 2/12
Example problem statement : wave propagation in infinite
cylinder
As a certain example we will consider wave propagation in infinite circle channel
with radius r =a, Ω˜ =S1×R. This process can be desribe as a wave equation
1 ∂2w =∆w
c2 ∂t2
where c - speed of sound in media, t is time, and ∆ - is Laplace operator.
To fix some parameters, we will set
w(r,φ,z,t)=0, while t ≤0
and
α∂w +βw =0,|α|+|β|≠ 0
∂r
Thus, we can conduct, that our problem is to find boundary conditions operator
on artificial hyperplanez =z and z =z , so solutions of differential problems in
L R
inner domain Ω , that is obtained by artificial boundaries from Ω˜, and outer
zL,zR
domain Ω˜\Ω .
zL,zR
20апреля2025г. 3/12
Methods
Below we will declare some steps from analytical algorithm for constructing
TBC[1].
1 In outer domain consider Fourier decomposition of our function by eigen
functions ψ (r,φ) of Laplace operator in circle channel:
k,n,m
w(r,φ,z,t)=
(cid:80)∞ (cid:80)∞ (cid:80)2
ψ (r,φ)w (z,t)
n=0 k=1 m=1 k,n,m k,n,m
2 Then, after substituion of this form to inital equation, for each basis function
we will have:
1 ∂2wk,m,n = ∂2wk,m,n −λ w
c2 ∂t2 ∂z2 k,n k,m,n
After applying a series of transformations (coordinate substitution, Laplace
transform, and reduction to a first-order ODE), we obtain the following relation
for each harmonic:
U′ =PU (1)
where P is an Poincare-Steklov operator. But why is it an operator? Because this
equation is written for every basis function. Remark : for some problems P has
diagonal form.
Actually, for most problems analytical form of P can be calculated. So fair
question is - what’s next? Problem is literally solved.
20апреля2025г. 4/12
Neural Network as a kernel approximation. Algorithm
Yes, but it is solved in the space of Fouirer-Laplace image, and before trying to
solve this task in original space we need to evaluate inverse transforms of equation
(∗). Because of some techinal reasons, before applying inverce Laplace transform
we need to decompose operator P by degrees of variable s:
P(s)=P s+P +K(s)
1 0
√
For our example P(s)= s2+1, and decomposition has form P(s)=s+K(s)
and asympthotics of K(s)= 1 +o(1). In the space of Laplace originals (s) must
s
be represented as a sum of exponents, so we will set K(s)= Pn−1(s), where
Qn(s)
P(s),Q(s) are polynomials with index correspondiing degrees.
As a result, we want our neural network to approximate target function
√
F(s)= s2+1−s and, at the same time, have the form of a rational function.
20апреля2025г. 5/12
Intermediate results
As data structure is quite simple (one dimensional grid in the space of s), we can
use fully-connected networked, designed as a rational function. So architechture of
our networks is:
1 First head P θ (x), that is an superposition of linear layers and polynomial
activations and represents polynomial of n−1-th degree.
2 Second head Q ϕ (x), that is an superposition of linear layers and polynomial
activations and represents polynomial of n-th degree.
3 Regression hidden layer R W before output with no activation function for
prediction stability
We will validate regression metrics on approximation quality
For convenience in our experiments we used Nvidia RTX 3060
20апреля2025г. 6/12
Results
Рис.: Approximation results in the space of Laplace transform images
Рис.: Approximation results in the space of Laplace transform originals
20апреля2025г. 7/12
Research Gap
Optimized loss function provide better results in some experiments setup.
However, for optiomization stability it should be calibrated by default
optiomization conditions (сonvexity, Lipschitz continuity of gradients).
This algorithm is onlly applicable in cases where the analytical form of the
convolution kernel of the Poincar´e–Steklov operator and its asymptotics are
known. Othrwise, the application of the methodology becomes difficult.
Next steps:
1 It is necessaary to optiomize the process of selecting hyperpameters and study the
dependence of the approximation quality on the grid density to obtain an
uunbiased estimate.
2 Integrate the approximation model as a submodel into a finite difference
problem solver based on autoregression for calculatin wave propaigation (it is
implied that wave propaigation can be interpreted as a sequence of
frames/images in space)
20апреля2025г. 8/12
Bibliography I
1 N. A. Zaitsev, I. L. Sofronov, “Generation of transparent boundary conditions
for modeling wave propaigation in anisotropic media”, Preprints of Keldysh
Institute of Applied Mathematics, 2018, 082, 36 pp.
2 N. A. Zaitsev, I. L. Sofronov, "Transparent boundary conditions for 2D
Maxwell equaions in Lorentz media."Preprints of the Keldysh Institute of
Applied Mathematics, 2010, 078, 18 pp
3 Zongyi Li, Hongkai Zheng, Nikola Kovachkki, David Jin, Haoxuan Chen,
Burigede Liu, Kamyar Azizzadenesheli, Anima Anandkumar
"Physics-Informed Neural Opereator for Learning Partial Differential
Equations"
4 Jan-Hendrik Bastek, WaiChing Sun, Dennis M. Kochmann "Physics-Informed
Diffusion Models"arXiv:2403.14404v1 [cs.LG]
5 LNO: Laplace Neural Opereator for Solving Differential Equations. Qianyiing
Cao, Somdatta Goswami, George Em Karniadakis, arXiv:2303.10528
20апреля2025г. 9/12