

[name] [surname]  
[company]  

Development of software for the information system of the electronic photo archive of local history information  

Relevance  

2  

Concludes in the need to develop software that helps researchers, enthusiasts of local history to effectively manage photographic materials, minimizing the efforts to catalog and search for information, while providing users with the ability to use the photo archive when traveling in the region  

Purpose  

Design and development of a module for tourist information system, designed to work with electronic photo archive of local history information  

Tasks  

Analyze the market of tourist information systems from the point of view of searching for photographic information  
Create a dataset of photos of the city in different historical periods  
Retrain the ResNet neural network  
Develop the server part of the tourist IS  
Create a mock-up of the client part of the tourist IS.  

Market Analysis  

[company] Travel is a platform that allows users to plan trips, compare and book flights, hotels and car rentals. The service integrates various [company] tools such as Maps and Search to provide comprehensive travel information, including places, routes and even weather conditions at the destination.  

Market analysis  

[company] is a service that provides users with information about places nearby, including restaurants, bars, stores and other interesting objects. Users can leave reviews, share photos and rate places, as well as get recommendations based on their preferences and location.  

High quality images of historical landmarks of [location]  
Used to train a neural network to accurately recognize historical landmarks of the city  

Dataset of [location] attractions  

Neural networks for image classification  

ResNet is a deep neural network with missing links designed to solve the gradient attenuation problem  

Post-training libraries using [company]  

[company]  
Open source machine learning library  
Allows to utilize the processing power of graphics cards  
Allows automatic graph computation  
Flexible functionality thanks to dynamic graph computation  

Determination  

Advantages  

Disadvantages  

TripletLoss is a loss function that is used to train neural networks in comparison tasks such as face recognition, recommender systems, etc.  

TripletLoss allows you to create more accurate models for comparison tasks such as object recognition or image classification.  

Application of TripletLoss in ResNet  

More data is required than in a normal loss function, as positive and negative examples are needed for each anchor example.  

ResNet neural network retraining  

Pre-processing  
Discussed the pre-processing techniques used on the [location] Landmarks dataset, including image resizing and normalization.  
Training  
We examined the process of training a ResNet neural network on the [location] landmarks dataset, including the use of data augmentation.  

Results ResNet (good result)  

Results ResNet (not good result)  

Development tools  

Application Architecture  

Home page of the website  

Chatbot on the homepage  

Mobile app version  

Approbation of the results of the project  

Conclusion  

In the future, the project can be developed for full-fledged use by users in the [location] region and not only.  

Analyzed the market of tourist information systems from the point of view of search of photographic information  
Described the functionality of the module of processing of graphic information for tourist IS  
Retrained neural network ResNet  
Developed the server part of tourist IS  
Created the layout of the client part of tourist IS.  

Thanks for attention