,
Simulation, Optimization and Reconstruction
High-Current Electron-Beam Transport
[name]
[location]
,
INTRODUCTION OPTIΜIZATION OF THE ENVELOPE BEAΜ
The issue of high-current electron-beam transport is discussed. The The KENV code and a genetic algorithm implemented in the DEAP framework [1] were
results of numerical simulation of beam transport in the 15-m-long used to reconstruct the envelope.
accelerator channel are presented. The ASTRA macroparticle (PIC) In the case of the KENV code, the solution was a vector of 9 strengths of solenoid lenses.
code and two codes devevelopeed at the Budker InstiTute of Nuclear The startiing population included 100 individuals in which the magnetic fields B were
Physics (the KENV code based on the solution of the Kapchin- Gaussian random variables with some mean value. The fitness function was the square
sky–Vladimirsky system of equations and the UltraSAM code im- root of the standard deviation of the mean from a given beam envelope and the modelling
plementing the method of boundar integral equations) are used in results. The task of the genetic algorithm was to minimize the sum of the fitness function.
this simulation. The electron-beam envelope is reconstructed and The genetic algorithm completed the task in 50 generations. The results are shown in the
optimizated using the KENV code with a genetic algorithm. Fig. 2.
KAPCHINSKY–VLADIMIIRSKY ENVELOPE EQUATIONS
The motion of an axially symmetric beam in the transport channel
with solenoids is characterized by the following equation 1:
2
1 1 P ε
′′ ′ ′ ′′
r + γ r + γ r + k r − − = 0. (1)
s
β2γ 2β2γ r r 3
This equation holds true for an annular beam with radius and a
uniform distribution of the space charge density. In this case, par-
ticles are emitted from a cathode screened from the magnetic field Figure 2: The process of restoring the envelope to a given envelope for 10, 20, 30, 40 generations.
(this actually implies that the angular moment is zero, P = 0);
θ
′ dγ
β is the dimensionless velocity, γ is the Lorentz factor, γ = ,
dz
2 RECΟNSTRUCTION OF THE ENVELOPE BEAΜ
′′ d γ 2I
γ = ,P = is the generalized beam perveance, I is the
dz2 I β3γ3
a
3
beam current, I = ≈ 17kA, ε is the beam emittance, and In the case of the K–V envelope code, the solution was a vector of 12 strengths of solenoid
a
e
lenses and three initial conditions (beam emittance, radius, and angular spread). The initial
(cid:18) (cid:19)2 (cid:18) (cid:19)2
eB cB [T ]
z z
k = = dr
population contained 1500 solutions, where magnetic fields B , radii r , angular spreads ,
s
z
6
2m cβγ 2βγ × 0.511 × 10 × volt dz
e
and normalized emittances ε were Gaussian random variables with mean values. The
n
is the rigiidity of solenoid lenses.
fitness function was the square root of the mean-square deviation of simulation data from
the measured beam diameter (the quadrupole lens strength). The goal of the genetic
algorithm was to minimize the sum of the fitness function.
SIMULATION OF THE BEAΜ TRANSPORT
This goal was achieved in 100 generations. The reconstructed initial conditions were used
In the present case, the ASTRA PIC code [3], UltraSAM [4], and
to model the envelope for comparison with the measurement data (see Fig. 3).
new code utilizing the Kapchinsky–Vladimirsky equation KENV [2]
were used to calculate the beam dynamics. The results of simulation
of an electron beam with an energy of 1.6 MeV at the injector
output, a current of 1.5 kA, and a normalized emittance of 1150
mm*mrad in the accelerator channel are compared in Fig. 1 The
amplitude of the accelerating voltage was 360 kV for each SAM.
Figure 3: Reconstructed envelope and magnetic field B (z) for the 1st and the 100th generations (left panel). Comparison between the simulated
z
data and the experimental results for a current of 1.5 kA (right panel).
CONCLUSIONS
The results of a simulation of the beam transport with different codes were presented.
The electron-beam envelope was reconstructed and optimizateed using the KENV code
and a genertiic algorithm. The envelope for the 15-m-long accelerator channel agreed
well with the ASTRA PIC code and UltraSAM. The high computation speed of the K–V
envelope code, which is many times higher than that of ASTRA and UltraSAM, provides
an opportunity to create an interactive interface for real-time electron-beam adjustment
and guiding in longer and more complex accelerators.
REFERENCES
Figure 1: Comparison of envelopes calculated using the K–V envelope code, ASTRA, and UltraSAM in the 15-
[1] [name].
Deap: A python framework for evolutionarry algorithms.
In Proceedinings of the 14th annual conference companioon on Genetic and evolutionarry computation, pages 85–92, 2012.
m-long accelerator channel.
×
The following simulation parameters were set in ASTRA: 75 501
[2] [name].
KENV kapchinsky envelope code.
grid cells in the beam region (in ASTRA, the grid is partitioned
https://github.com/fuodorov/kenv, 2019.
only in the beam region); 1000000 macroparticles with a uniform
[3] [name], [name] and [name].
transverse distribution and a pulse duration of 20 ns. Figure 1
Recent improvements to the astra particle tracking code.
demonstrates that the results of these three simulations were fairlly
Technical report, Lawrence Berkeley National Lab.(LBNL), Berkeley, CA (United States), 2003.
close. The envelope curves in Fig. 1 correspoond to the complete
[4] [name] and [name].
passage of current along the accelerator channel.
Ultrasam-2d code for simulation of electron guns with ultra high precision.
Proceeding of EPAC-2002, Paris, pages 1634–1636, 2002.
www.inp.nsk.su April 18, 2025 [email]