Craftax Walkthrough
with [name]
about
Craftax - what is it?
Craftax is a game about exploring dungeons, mining,
crafting, and fightiing enemies. The player can move in four
directions and interact with the environment.
The player has 5 internal attributes: health, hunger, thirst,
energy, and mana.
To complete the game, the player needs to find the stairs on
each floor to descend to the next level. Each floor has unique
tasks and creatures, the difficulty of which increases up to
the last level with the boss.
Why Craftax? RL Baseline
“Existing tests for open-ended learning are either too slow or too simple. Craftax is both fast
and complex. We hope that this will allow researchers without access to industrial-scale computing
to explore open-ended learning with an ease that was previously impossible.”
1. Craftax was originally designed for RL solutions; all
existing algorithms are based on reinforcement learning.
2. There are many Baselines and a leaderboard.
3. The game has achievements of varying difficulty and a
convenient reward system.
Goals
For this, the project must implement four main structures:
Endless generation of new tasks for the character
● Generation of working code by the neural network to solve this task
● Analysis of the written code, identifying errors
● In the case of generating good code that performs the task, memorizing it for further reuse in
similar situations, or for creating other code that solves a more complex task
Structure
Curriculum agent
Curriculum agent
Skill manager
Skill manager
Action agent and critic agent
Prompts
System prompts:
[email] GPT
Different versions of [email] GPT for resource optimization:
[email] GPT lite - For simple tasks:
Skill manager: Creating code descriptions
[email] GPT pro - For more complex tasks that do not require a lot of context:
Curriculum agent: Generating tasks for the player
Critique agent: Checking task completion
[email] GPT pro 32k - For complex tasks with a lot of context
Action agent: Generating code
[compaany]
runs
task: task: task: Task:
Drink water Create a crafting Create furnace Subtask by [email]
table
Best run: Reward (% max) - 5.89