PREDICTING THE RISK OF INFECCIOUS COMPLICATIONS AFTER SURGERY USING
MACHIINE LEARNING TECHNIQUE
[name]
[surname]
faculty of Computational Mathematics and Cybernetics
INTRODUCTION
Artificial Intelligence is being actively implemented in various
areas of life, and its application in medicine is particularly
significant. The application of AI helps improve diagnostic
accuracy, early detection of disease, prediction of complication
risks, and individualization of treatment.
Intelligent systems are becoming an important tool in the hands
of physicians, helping to minimize human error, speed up
infoрмаtion processing, and improve the quality of patient care.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
A real medical database consisting of 403 patients who underwent
scheduled surgery for colorectal cancer is considered. It is required to
predict the occurrence of infectious complications in patients after
surgery based on cooperative and operative data. That is, it requires
solving a binary classification problem.
The database contains 244 features that can be categorized as binary,
numeric (int and float), and categorical.
Challenges:
An imbalance in target variable (only 13% of patients had
complications).
Few objects in database.
METHODS
Data analysis
Of the 244 features, 143 contain
Number of gaps in a Number of columns
postoperative findings that are
column (N) containing N gaps
not included in the problem
N < 25 62
statement. The 80 most
populated features were
25 <= N < 60 18
selected, of which 67 are the
most meaningful and do not
N >= 60 21
correlate with the target
variable.
METHODS
Correlation analysis
A correlation matrix was
constructed and pairs of
features with a correlation
coefficient of 0.6 or greater were
analysed. After expert
assessment by the physician, a
decision was made to exclude 10
features.
METHODS
Data preprocessing
1. Categorical variables coding: One Hot encoding, 57 176
features
2. Fill in missing values: mean if numeric variable (round if int),
0 if binary
3. SMOTE technique to handle class imbalance
4. Normalization: Standard Scaler
METHODS
Final sample: 704 items and 176 columns. Target variable: “presence
of infectious complications”.
The sample was divided into 3 parts:
Missing values are filled in
Train: 56 %
separately in the test sample,
Validation: 24 %
and separately in the training
Test: 20 % and validation samples.
3 machine learning algorithms have been used:
Random Forest
CatBoost
SVM with nonlinear kernel
These methods were chosen for their high efficiency.
METHODS
Random Forest:
An ensemble method based on decision trees, in which trees are
independentlly trained on bootstrapped samples.
CatBoost:
An ensemble method of gradient boosting over decision trees in which
trees are trained sequentially. Each next tree is trained in such way as to
minimize the residual errors (the difference between the current
predictions and the actual labels).
SVM with nonlinear kernel:
SVM works by mapping data to a high-dimensional feature space so that
data points can be categorized, even when they are not linearly separable
in the original space. The key idea is to find the hyperplane that best
separates two classes by maximizing the margin between them. To handle
non-linear relationships, SVM uses the kernel trick.
RESULTS
The CatBoost model performeed best with an F1 score of 0.84 on the test sample.
Two metrics were used to measure quality: accuracy and F1 score.
Accuracy is a basic metric that works well
with balanced classes. However, in medical
ML algorithm acc_train acc_test f1_train f1_test
prediction tasks where class imbalances are
common, it can provide a distorted view of
model performance.
RandomForest 1.0 0.95 1.0 0.56
F1 score is particularly important in tasks
with imbalanced classes, as it takes into
CatBoost 1.0 0.98 1.0 0.84 account both the number of false positive
and false negative predictions. A high F1
score indicates that the model not only finds
SVM nonlinear 1.0 0.96 1.0 0.68
cases with complications, but also does so
with a minimal number of errors.
RESEARCH GAP
Unresolved challenges: Few items in the database.
Why it matters: In the context of practical medical applications, increasing
the amount of data is a key step in creating a robusst and clinically rellevant
decision support tool.
Future opportunities:
It is not only important to predict the presence of a complication, but also
the day on which it will occur. With the help of post-operative laboratory
tests prescribed a few days after surgery, it is possible to understand
which tests to pay attention to first in order to prevent a complication.