Autoregressive Generation Strategies for Top-K Sequential
Recommendations
[name]
ML Researcher / [company]
Introduction
Timeline
[name]
Recommendations
?
Timeline
[name]
• Sequential recommendations: an order of interactions matters
Problem statement
From next-item to Top-K for offlinne/nearline recommendation pipeline with a
single model
Standard next-item recommendation task
?
Timeline
Top-K with autoregressive prediction
? ? ?
Timeline Top-K future items
Scope: propose new strategies of autoregressive
generation for Top-K Sequential Recommendaions
Method: Backbone
Transformer decoders such SASRec are SOTA for production
recommender systems and a backbone for a various modern
generative recommendation models.
SASRec:
SASRec (Self-Attentive Sequential Recommendation)
● GPT-like
● Transformer Decoder
● item = token
● Next token prediction task
GPT-2 (our backbone):
● Only architecture (no
language pre-training, item
= token)
● Architecturally close to
SASRec
● Generation approaches
from HuggingFace
Transformers out of the box
Kang, Wang-Cheng, and Julian McAuley. "Self-attentive sequential recommendation." 2018 IEEE
international conference on data mining (ICDM). IEEE, 2018.
Methods:
simple strategies
Top-K prediction approach: To apply the model to a known user’s interactions
sequence, get the model scores for next-item and recommend the Top-K items
Autoregressive generation
Greedy decoding: Greedy decoding, or greedy search, selects the
most probable item as the next item of a sequence
Beam search: Beam search with B beams, where B is known as
the beam width, leaves top-B most probable sequence continuations
at each generation step.
Temperature sampling:The next item is randomly chosen according to its conditional probability
distribution. Softmax temperature tuning may be used to modify probability
distribution
Methods:
applying “ensembling”
Problems:
- error accumulation during generation
- standard approaches do not outperform baseline for a significant part of datasets
Solution: apply multi-sequence aggregation
- train a single model
- generate N sequence continuations with this model
- aggregate somehow to reduce generation error on a longer prediction horizon and improve
quality
Methods:
multi-sequence aggregation (RRA)
Reciprocal Rank Aggregation strategy
(RRA):
(1) Generate sequence continuations
of length 𝐾 with temperature
sampling. Repetition of already
generated items at subsequent
generation steps is prohibiited.
(2) Each item in the generated
sequence is assigned relevance
equal to an item’s reciprocal
position. The relevance of the
remaining items is 0
(3) Aggregate by summing up scores
Methods:
multi-sequence aggregation (RA)
Relevance Aggregation strategy (RA):
(1) Generate sequence continuations
of length 𝐾 with temperature
sampling. This time we allow the
model to predict already generated
items and keep predicted
relevances for all items on each
generation step 𝑘.
(2) Each item in the catalog is
assigned relevance equal to the
sum of its relevances at each
generation step.
(3) Aggregate by summing up scores
Experimental settinings
Data & preprocessing: We filter out users with fewer than 20 interaction records, we also
discaard unpopuular items with less than five interactions.
Split: We hold the last 𝑁 items of each user interaction sequence for validation and testing
with 𝑁 = 10. All previous interactions are used for training. Data with the last 𝑁 items is further
split into validation and test set randomly by users.
Metrics: For performa performance evaluaion, we use three commoonly used ranking metrics:
Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG@10), Recall@10, and Mean Average
Precision (MAP@10)
Results
Key findiinings:
- We found that commoonly used single-sequence autoregressive generation
strategiies such as greedy, beam search, and temperature sampling do not
usually outperform the baseline, Top-K prediction approach. However, the
autoregressive generation strategies show higher performa performance in predicting
longer-term user preferences.
-
- Next, we found that contradictory to NLP tasks, greedy decoding outperforms
temperature sampling and beam search.
Results
- Proposed multi-sequence aggregation approaches, Reciprocal Rank
Aggregation strategy and Relevance Aggregation strategy, outperform
single-sequence generation and Top-K prediction approaches.
Results
- Obtained results are statistically significant
Research gap
Limitations in current approaches:
• Multi sequence aggregation lead to increased computaional costs
• Proposed approaches are not sufficientlly theoretically substantiated
Future opportunities:
Development of novel aggregation strategies, including modification of beam search to outperform
greedy approach, speculaive decoding application
Links
Paper (under review in User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction journal, Q1)
Code